CONFHIT: CONFORMAL GENERATIVE DESIGN WITH
ORACLE FREE GUARANTEES
Siddhartha Laghuvarapu1, Ying Jin2вҲ—, Jimeng Sun1вҲ—
1 Siebel School of Computing and Data Science, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, IL, USA
2 Department of Statistics and Data Science, Wharton School, University of Pennysylvania, PA, USA
{sl160,jimeng}@illinois.edu, yjinstat@wharton.upenn.edu
ABSTRACT
The success of deep generative models in scientific discovery requires not only the
ability to generate novel candidates but also reliable guarantees that these candi-
dates indeed satisfy desired properties. Recent conformal-prediction methods offer
a path to such guarantees, but its application to generative modeling in drug discov-
ery is limited by budget constraints, lack of oracle access, and distribution shift. To
address these challenges, we introduce CONFHIT, a model-agnostic framework
that provides validity guarantees under these conditions. CONFHIT formalizes two
central questions: (i) Certification: whether a generated batch can be guaranteed
to contain at least one hit with a user-specified confidence level, and (ii) Design:
whether the generation can be refined to a compact set without weakening this
guarantee. CONFHIT leverages weighted exchangeability between historical and
generated samples to eliminate the need for an experimental oracle, constructs
multiple-sample density-ratio weighted conformal p-value to quantify statistical
confidence in hits, and proposes a nested testing procedure to certify and refine
candidate sets of multiple generated samples while maintaining statistical guaran-
tees. Across representative generative molecule design tasks and a broad range
of methods, CONFHIT consistently delivers valid coverage guarantees at multiple
confidence levels while maintaining compact certified sets, thereby establishing a
principled and reliable framework for generative modeling.
1
INTRODUCTION
Deep generative modeling has demonstrated remarkable ability to explore high-dimensional spaces,
driving advances in various applications like text generation (Radford et al., 2018), image synthe-
sis (Ho et al., 2022), protein engineering (Madani et al., 2020), and molecular discovery (GГіmez-
Bombarelli et al., 2018). In critical domains such as drug discovery, however, the success requires
more than generation: While powerful generative models have been developed to accelerate early-
stage discovery (Madani et al., 2021; Hoogeboom et al., 2022; Yim et al., 2023), their practical utility
depends on whether the generated candidates indeed satisfy key biochemical properties. Since these
properties can only be verified through costly wet-lab or in-vivo experiments, it is crucial to assess
and guarantee, in advance, the viability of the generated samples (hits), leading to a central question:
Given a generative model, how to construct batches of generated samples that can,
with high statistical confidence, be guaranteed to contain at least one valid hit?
Conformal prediction provides a model-agnostic framework for establishing statistical guarantees for
black-box prediction models (Vovk et al., 2005), and is recently extended to calibrate any generative
model to produce sets of generated samples that contain at least one high-quality instance with high
probability (Quach et al., 2023; Ulmer et al., 2024; Shahrokhi et al., 2025). While such guarantees
can be profoundly useful, direct application of the existing methods in resource-restricted problems
like drug discovery is limited by several challenges. (i) Certification: With limited generation budget
and no assumptions on the generative model, it is not always feasible to produce a valid hit вҖ“ therefore
important to state clearly when a guarantee can be provided and when it cannot. On the technical side,
(ii) Lack of oracle access: Existing methods rely on an oracle that evaluates newly generated samples
for existing inputs (such as by comparing to a gold-standard output). In drug discovery, this means
one needs to synthesize and experimentally validate the generated samples, which is infeasible in
resource-limited settings alike (Kladny et al., 2024). (iii) Distribution shift: The generated candidates
may follow a distribution different from the calibration data, violating the exchangeability assumption.
вҲ—These authors jointly supervised this work.
1


Generative 
Model
Input рқ‘ҝрқ’•рқ’Ҷрқ’”рқ’•
Sampled outputs
(A)
рқ‘ғcertified | no hit in рқҗ¶0 рқ‘Ӣрқ‘Ўрқ‘’рқ‘ рқ‘Ў
вүӨрқӣј
рқ‘ғ no hit in рқҗ¶рқ‘Ӣрқ‘Ўрқ‘’рқ‘ рқ‘Ў
вүӨрқӣј
Certification:
Design:
z
Test input
Generative 
Model
Calibration 
data
Density estimator
Conformity score
p_1
p_2
p_3
p_n
вүӨ Оұ ?
вүӨ Оұ ?
вүӨ Оұ ?
Shortlist
Generated 
candidate
outputs
(B)
вҖҰ
Joint weighted conformal p-values
Conformal 
nested testing
вҖҰ
вүҘ
вүҘ
вүҘ
Figure 1: (a) Problem setup: given an input, certify and generate a set of candidates that contains at least one вҖңhitвҖқ
(green) with probability at least 1 вҲ’Оұ. (b) CONFHIT workflow. Given a nested sequence of candidate batches,
we estimate the density ratio between labeled data and generated samples, compute a conformal p-value for each
batch to quantify the confidence in it containing a hit, and return the smallest batch whose p-value falls below Оұ.
We introduce CONFHIT, a model-agnostic framework that provides reliability guarantees for gen-
erative modeling in resource-constrained settings. To tackle the budget limitation, we expand the
generation problem into two connected fundamental questions:
1. Certification. Given an input ВҜXtest, a batch C0( ВҜXtest) of generated samples and an unknown
property indicator A(В·) вҲҲ{0, 1}, can we guarentee, at a given confidence level 1вҲ’Оұ вҲҲ(0, 1),
that the batch C( ВҜXtest) contains at least a hit?
2. Design. In cases with strong confidence, can we design a compact candidate set C( ВҜXtest)
while preserving the guarantee that it contains a valid hit with probability at least 1 вҲ’Оұ?
Here A(В·) вҲҲ{0, 1} is an oracle that returns 1 only when the sample satisfies a desired property. In
molecule design, it may indicate whether a molecule x improves upon a seed molecule ВҜXtest in terms
of activity, and these questions ensure the experimental validation on C( ВҜXtest) is unlikely to be wasted
effort (Figure 1a). We remark that, in resource-abundant settings, certification and refinement can be
combined: the generation budget may be enlarged until certification is achieved, after which the set is
pruned to a compact certified subset, leading to the same validity guarantees by existing methods.
To eliminate oracle access and handle the distribution shift, CONFHIT leverages the exchangeability
structure between historical (labeled) and generated samples, rather than among generated samples
for both existing and new model inputs as in earlier methods, and estimates their density ratio,
thereby inducing weighted exchangeability (Tibshirani et al., 2019; Jin & CandГЁs, 2023a). For the
certification problem, given any viability-scoring function, we construct a weighted permutation
p-value that quantifies the evidence against the global null that none of the samples in the generated
batch are viable. For the design problem, CONFHIT then examines the certification confidence of a
nested sequence of candidate batches, and returns the smallest batch that can be certified at a given
confidence level Оұ вҲҲ(0, 1). We show that this procedure bounds the probability of returning a batch
with no viable sample below Оұ вҲҲ(0, 1), regardless of the scoring function and the generative model.
We demonstrate the robust guarantees of CONFHIT on two representative generative design tasks: (i)
Constrained molecule optimisation, which seeks a new molecule that satisfies a target property
while remaining similar to a given scaffold; (ii) Structure-based drug discovery, which aims to
generate molecules that are active against a given protein. We summarize our contributions below:
вҖў We formalise the task of generative modeling in resource-constrained settings with a conformal
validity guarantee: given an input context (such as a lead molecule or protein pocket), certify and
produce a set of candidates that contains at least one hit at a pre-specified confidence level 1 вҲ’Оұ.
вҖў We introduce a class of density-ratio-weighted, multiple-test-sample conformal p-values for the
certification problem, and show their validity for certifying the existence of at least one hit in a
given batch of generated samples under distribution shift.
вҖў We propose a general nested testing framework that achieves the validity guarantees for the
design problem. In specific, we show that given a sequence of our p-values, stopping as soon as
the p-value drops below Оұ achieves finite-sample error control.
вҖў We develop practical strategies for two key elements in the method: score modelling and density
ratio estimation, and demonstrate the robust performance on two standard molecule design tasks:
constrained molecule optimisation and structure-based drug discovery.
2


Related Work. Conformal prediction (CP) (Vovk et al., 2005) offers distribution-free uncertainty
quantification for any black-box model by constructing prediction sets from exchangeable calibration
data (Papadopoulos et al., 2002). Recent advances extend CP to generative tasks (Angelopoulos
et al., 2021; Quach et al., 2023; Shahrokhi et al., 2025; Kladny et al., 2024). However, these methods
require oracle access, which is impractical for resource-constrained scenarios like drug discovery.
In scientific/drug discovery tasks, conformal prediction has so far primarily been used in predictive
inference for regression and classification problems in property prediction (Sun et al., 2017; Svensson
et al., 2018; CortГ©s-Ciriano & Bender, 2018; 2019; Zhang et al., 2021) and their extension to
covariate-shift settings via importance-weight estimation (Fannjiang et al., 2022; Laghuvarapu et al.,
2023; Prinster et al., 2023; Fannjiang & Park, 2025). Beyond prediction-set construction, conformal
selection employs p-values to prioritize compounds with selective error control (Bai et al., 2024;
Jin & CandГЁs, 2023b; Bai & Jin, 2024). As we address a distinct generative design problem, our
formulation, inference scheme, and methodology differ sharply from prior work.
Meanwhile, there is a growing literature on generative modelling in scientific design tasks, including
goal-directed small-molecule optimization (GГіmez-Bombarelli et al., 2018; Jin et al., 2020), structure-
based ligand design (Corso et al., 2022; Guan et al., 2023), large-scale protein generators (Madani
et al., 2020; Ingraham et al., 2019; Strokach & Kim, 2022), and materials discovery (Xie et al., 2022;
Zeni et al., 2023). Our contributions are orthogonal to this literature as CONFHIT is model agnostic
and offers guarantees for building property-satisfying samples from these generative models.
To summarize, compared with existing works, CONFHIT is the first framework that (i) eliminates the
need for oracle access, (ii) corrects for covariate shift between historical and generated samples, and
(iii) provides finite-sample guarantees for both certification and compact design in generative design.
2
PROBLEM FORMULATION
For expositional convenience, we slightly override the notations in Section 1.
Data and distributions. We assume access to a set of i.i.d. labeled (calibration) samples Dcalib =
{(Xi, Yi)}n
i=1 from an unknown distribution P, e.g., molecules from past campaigns with known
properties. Here Xi вҲҲX is the feature, e.g., the chemical structure of a molecule, and Yi вҲҲ{0, 1}
is a binary label, e.g., oracle-judged Yi = A(Xi). A generative model M produces i.i.d. sam-
ples {Xn+j}jвүҘ1 from another distribution Q with unknown labels {Yn+j}jвүҘ1 (the properties
Yn+j = A(Xn+j) should they be judged by the oracle). Although QвҖҷs density is, in principle,
computable, doing so is often costly. Instead, we assume a covariate shift between the two distri-
butions: dQ/ dP(x, y) = w(x) for some function w: X вҶ’R+. It posits that X captures all the
information for predicting Y , which is especially sensible and standard in drug discovery contexts
where the biological property is determined by the structure (though in a highly complex fashion).
Guarantees. We now formalize our guarantees for (i) certifying the presence of a hit in a set of
generated candidates, and (ii) constructing a set of samples with at least a hit. For goal (i), given a
pre-specified confidence level Оұ вҲҲ(0, 1) and a generated set Cnew
0
:= {Xn+j}N
j=1 of budget N вҲҲN+,
we aim to propose a test ПҲ(Dcalib, Cnew
0
) вҲҲ{0, 1} such that
(Certification)
P
 ПҲ(Dcalib, Cnew
0
) = 1
 A(Xn+j) = 0, вҲҖ1 вүӨj вүӨN

вүӨОұ,
(1)
that is, the probability of falsely certifying a low-quality candidate set is upper bounded by Оұ. For
goal (ii), we would like to find a (random) stopping point ЛҶN вүӨN such that
(Design)
P
 A(Xn+j) = 0, вҲҖ1 вүӨj вүӨЛҶN

вүӨОұ,
(2)
outputing the list of samples ЛҶCnew := (Xn+1, . . . , Xn+ ЛҶ
N) which contains a hit while controlling the
error of vacuous declaration. We define ЛҶN = 0 to accommodate cases where we are not confident
enough to declare any positive sample within the generation budget (failure of certification).1
3
METHOD
We introduce our conformal nested testing framework to address the certification problem (Section 3.1)
and the design problem (Section 3.2), and prove their model-agnostic, finite-sample guarantees.
1This is consistent with existing works on uncertainty quantification for generative models (Quach et al.,
2023), where a вҖңnullвҖқ option (i.e., the method fails to confidently generate good samples) is required.
3


3.1
CERTIFICATION: JOINT WEIGHTED CONFORMAL P-VALUE
We begin by addressing the certification problem: Given a set of generated samples, how to quantify
the confidence in it containing a hit? Our key strategy is to construct a p-value based on conformal
inference ideas that test the presence of any hit in {Xn+j}N
j=1. Recall that there is a covariate shift
w(x) = dQ/ dP(x, y) for the labeled calibration data and the new test samples. To fix ideas, we
assume the density ratio w(В·) is known for now, and discuss estimated density ratio in Remark 3.3.
Our p-values leverage the inactive calibration data {Xi : i вҲҲI0} where I0 := {i вҲҲ[n]: Yi = 0}.
We let X = (X1, . . . , Xn0, Xn+1, . . . , Xn+N) denote the vector of (inactive) calibration and test
covariates. Following split conformal prediction (Vovk et al., 2005), we let V : X n0+N вҶ’R be
any function whose training process is independent of {(Xi, Yi)}iвүҘ1, which is then viewed as fixed.
We call V the conformity score function, whose choice is discussed near the end of this subsection.
Without loss of generality, we assume a larger value of the conformity score indicates stronger
confidence in the presence of a positive value in {Yn+j}N
j=1.
To address multiple test points without introducing too much computational overhead, we leverage
randomization (see Appendix A.1 for the non-randomized version). Let О N be the collection of
all permutations of {1, . . . , n0, n + 1, . . . , n + N}, and denote the identity mapping as ПҖ(0), i.e.,
ПҖ(0)(i) = i for any i. Formally, fixing any B вҲҲN+, we draw ПҖ(1), . . . , ПҖ(B) i.i.d.
вҲјUnif(О N), the
uniform distribution over the permutation space. Define
prand
N
=
PB
b=0 ВҜw(ПҖ(b); X) 1{V (ПҖ0; X) вүӨV (ПҖ(b); X)}
PB
b=0 ВҜw(ПҖ(b); X)
.
(3)
Here, for any permutation ПҖ вҲҲО N, we define the conformity score from the permuted data
V (ПҖ; X) = V (XПҖ(1), . . . , XПҖ(n0), XПҖ(n+1), . . . , XПҖ(n+k)), and ВҜw(ПҖ; X) = Qk
j=1 w(XПҖ(n+j)),
is the joint likelihood ratio after permutation ПҖ, where w(x) = dQ/ dP(x, y) is the density ratio.
The construction of our p-value relies on an analysis of the exchangeability structure between the
inactive calibration data {Xi : i вҲҲI0} and the test samples {Xn+j}N
j=1 under distribution shift,
detailed in Appendix A.2 due to limited space. It extends the conformal p-values in the literature via
an extended weighted exchangeability structure (Tibshirani et al., 2019) for multiple test samples (Hu
& Lei, 2024; Jin & CandГЁs, 2023a); these connections are discussed in Appendix A.3.
The following theorem establishes the finite-sample validity of the randomization p-value (3). Notably,
this holds regardless of the number of sampled permutations. Its proof is in Appendix B.4.
Theorem 3.1. Under the covariate shift assumption, it holds for any fixed t вҲҲ[0, 1] that
P
 prand
N
вүӨt
 max1вүӨjвүӨNYn+j = 0

вүӨt.
Therefore, the certification test function ПҲ(Dcalib, {Xn+j}N
j=1) = 1{prand
N
вүӨОұ} achieves (1).
Inheriting the model-free nature of conformal inference, the validity of pk and prand
k
holds regardless
of the score function V , as long as its training process is independent of the calibration and test data.
Remark 3.2 (Outlier detection). Our p-values can also be viewed as testing for the presence of
at least one outlier in {Xn+j}m
j=1 when {Xi}iвҲҲI0 are viewed as calibration inliers. We refer the
readers to discussion on the connection to outlier detection under covariate shifts (Bates et al., 2023;
Jin & CandГЁs, 2023a) in Appendix A.4.
Remark 3.3 (Estimated density ratio). In many practical scenarios, the density ratio w(В·) is unknown
or difficult to evaluate. In such cases, we estimate the density ratio by ЛҶw(В·), and use ЛҶw(В·) instead
of w(В·) in the construction of our p-values {pk}. For instance, we can train the density ratio
over a random subset of all the labeled data and independently generated test samples. We do
not write the exact formulas for such plug-in p-values for brevity. Recognizing that the success of
CONFHIT hinges on accurate density ratio estimation, we provide a thorough discussion on the
robustness of CONFHIT with estimated weights and several practical diagostics in Section 3.3.
Conformity score function. Because we certify the candidate set when pN is small, V must grow
when Xn+1:n+N contains a positive to indicate strong confidence. To this end, we assume access to
a pre-trained model ЛҶВө: X вҶ’R that predicts the unknown property Yn+j based on Xn+j, which will
be used in the score V . We suggest several natural choices: (i) Max-pooling: V (x1:n0, xn+1:n+N) =
4


max1вүӨjвүӨN ЛҶВө(xn+j), (ii) Sum-of-prediction: V (x1:n0, xn+1:n+N) = PN
j=1 ЛҶВө(xn+j), (iii) Rank-
sum: V (x1:n0, xn+1:n+N) = PN
j=1 Rn+j, where Rn+j is the rank among all scores, (iv) Likelihood
ratio: V (x1:n0, xn+1:n+N) = PN
j=1 log(
ЛҶВө(xn+j)
1вҲ’ЛҶВө(xn+j)). We explain these scores in Appendix A.5. We
note that CONFHIT is model-agnostic: practitioners can choose any suitable model to build the score
V . The quality of the score/model affects the power, but not the error control of CONFHIT. Finally,
practitioners may want to avoid sample splitting when labeled data is limited; we provide such a
variant in Appendix A.6 where the labeled data are used for both training ЛҶВө and p-value construction.
3.2
DESIGN: CONFORMAL NESTED TESTING
Upon the valid p-value and certification test for a given candidate set, we proceed to address the
design problem: How to propose a compact set of generated samples that contains at least one hit
with high probability? To this end, we connect (2) to the problem of constructing a smaller subset of
candidates that can be certified by our procedure, and establish its statistical guarantee.
To be specific, for every 1 вүӨk вүӨN, we consider the null hypothesis
Hk : Yn+j = 0, вҲҖ1 вүӨj вүӨk.
(4)
That is, Hk posits that none of the first k generated instances obeys the desired property. From a
hypothesis testing perspective, rejecting Hk thus suggests sufficient confidence in declaring a hit in
{Xn+j}k
j=1. The certification strategy in Section 3.1 is readily applicable to obtain a p-value pk for
certifying each subset {Xn+j}k
j=1 indexed by k that obeys P(pk вүӨt | Hk is true) вүӨt for t вҲҲ[0, 1].
Our solution to the design problem appears simple: determine an index ЛҶN such that H ЛҶ
N can be
rejected (i.e., {Xn+j}k
j=1 can be confidently declared as containing a hit). Specifically, suppose we
can construct a decreasing sequence of p-values pk вҲҲ[0, 1] for each fixed Hk. Then, we set
ЛҶN := inf

k: pk вүӨОұ
	
.
(5)
That is, we take the first p-value that passes the significance level Оұ вҲҲ(0, 1). Theorem 3.4 confirms
the validity of this nested testing strategy, whose proof is in Appendix B.1.
Theorem 3.4. Suppose the p-values pk вҲҲ[0, 1] obey: (i) Monotonicity: p1 вүҘp2 вүҘВ· В· В· pN. (ii)
Validity: For any fixed k вүҘ1 and t вҲҲ[0, 1], it holds that P(pk вүӨt | Hk is true) вүӨt. Then, we have
P(max1вүӨjвүӨЛҶ
NYn+j = 0) вүӨОұ
for the generation threshold ЛҶN computed as in (5). Here Hk is defined in (4).
We note that any p-values {Лңpk} obeying condition (ii) in Theorem 3.4, such as those constructed
in the certification problem, can be turned to pk = maxkвүӨjвүӨN Лңpj which satisfy both conditions in
Theorem 3.4. Perhaps surprisingly, even though we are simultaneously examining multiple batches
of candidates, it turns out that using a monotone sequence of individually valid p-values suffices
to achieve our goal, and no adjustment for multiplicity is needed. We remark that the key to our
theoretical guarantee is the nested nature of the hypotheses: if Hk is true, then all вҖңearlierвҖқ hypotheses
{Hв„“}в„“вүӨk must also be true. We thus call our method вҖңconformal nested testingвҖқ.
CONFHIT: Putting everything together. So far, we have completed all the elements of CONFHIT.
We summarize the entire procedure in Algorithm 1, including both certification (for every nested
subset) and design. Note that the input ЛҶw(В·) denotes an estimated density ratio function, which
coincides with w(В·) when the density ratio is known. When it fails to certify even the largest batch,
CONFHIT flags вҖңnot confident enoughвҖқ to clearly communicate the difficulty of the generation task.
3.3
ROBUSTNESS AND DIAGNOSTICS FOR DENSITY RATIO ESTIMATION
The density ratio often needs to be estimated in practice and its quality naturally affects the perfor-
mance of CONFHIT. The difference between historical assay data and newly generated molecules
is a persistent issue in drug discovery and needs to be addressed in nearly all conformal prediction
methods in this domain (Krstajic, 2021; Laghuvarapu et al., 2023; Jin & CandГЁs, 2023a; Fannjiang
& Park, 2025). Estimating the density ratio is a statistically standard problem used in many fields
including machine learning, statistics, and causal inference with rich existing toolboxes such as kernel
or classification-based methods beyond the kernel density estimation in our experiments (Horvitz &
5


Algorithm 1 CONFHIT
Input: Calibration data {Xi}n0
i=1 for which Yi = 0, test data {Xn+j}N
j=1, conformity score V : X n0+k вҶ’R,
(estimated) weight function ЛҶw: X вҶ’R+, confidence level Оұ вҲҲ(0, 1), budget N вҲҲN+, Monte Carlo size
B вҲҲN+.
1: for k = 1, . . . , N do
2:
Set О  = { all permutations of {1, . . . , n0, n + 1, . . . , n + k} }.
// Sequential conformal p-values
3:
Draw ПҖ(b) i.i.d.
вҲјUnif(О ) for b = 1, . . . , B.
4:
Compute p-value pk as in (3) with w(x) := ЛҶw(x).
5: end for
6: Set pk = maxkвҖІвүҘk pkвҖІ iteratively for k = N вҲ’1, . . . , 1
// Monotonize p-values
7: Compute ЛҶ
N = argmax{k вҲҲ[N]: pk вүӨОұ}, with ЛҶ
N = 0 if pN > Оұ
Output: Confident shortlist C := {Xn+j}
ЛҶ
N
j=1 or вҖңnot confident enoughвҖқ when ЛҶ
N = 0.
Thompson, 1952; Shimodaira, 2000; Sugiyama et al., 2007; Nguyen et al., 2010; Sugiyama et al.,
2012; Shapiro, 2003). Below, we elaborate on (i) a theoretical analysis of CONFHITвҖҷs robustness to
the estimation error, followed by (ii) three diagnostic approaches for the estimation quality.
Theorem 3.5 shows that with estimated density ratio, the error inflation depends on how aggressive
(resp. conservative) the weights are for small (resp. large) p-values; its proof is in Appendix B.5.
Theorem 3.5 (Robustness to estimation error). Let ЛҶpN be the p-value (3) using any estimated weights
ЛҶw(В·). Define the positive/negative parts of the estimation error ЛҶОҙВұ(ПҖ; X) = [ ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; X) вҲ’ВҜw(ПҖ; X)]Вұ,
with ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; X) = QN
j=1 ЛҶw(XПҖ(n+j)). Then, for any fixed t вҲҲ(0, 1), we have
P

ЛҶprand
N
вүӨt
 max
1вүӨjвүӨN Yn+j = 0

вүӨt + E

ЛҶtВ· ЛҶвҲҶ++(1вҲ’ЛҶt)В· ЛҶвҲҶвҲ’
PB
b=0 ВҜ
w(ПҖ(b);X)
 max1вүӨjвүӨN Yn+j = 0

,
where, setting ЛҶpN(v) :=
PB
b=0 ЛҶВҜ
w(ПҖ(b);X) 1{vвүӨV (ПҖ(b);X)}
PB
b=0 ЛҶВҜ
w(ПҖ(b);X)}
, we define ЛҶv = argmax{V (ПҖ(b); X): ПҖ вҲҲ
О , ЛҶpN(V (ПҖ(b); X)) вүӨt} as the score cutoff, and the corresponding p-value as ЛҶt := ЛҶpN(ЛҶv), and
ЛҶвҲҶ+ = PB
b=0ЛҶОҙ+(ПҖ(b); X) 1{V (ПҖ(b); X) < ЛҶv},
ЛҶвҲҶвҲ’= PB
b=0ЛҶОҙвҲ’(ПҖ(b); X) 1{V (ПҖ(b); X) вүҘЛҶv}.
While Theorem 3.5 offers insights on how the guarantees degrade with the (unknown) estimation
error, it is often useful to perform robustness diagnostics in practice. The three approaches below are
demonstrated in our experiments in вҖңRobustness checkвҖқ Section 4.5.
(1) Balance check. Following the balancing idea in causal inference (Ben-Michael et al., 2021),
reweighting via the correct density ratio will bring the empirical mean of any function of the covariates
in the calibration data close to that of the test data (under the null with no hits). A natural diagnostic
is to check the imbalance | 1
n0
Pn0
i=1 ЛҶw(Xi)f(Xi) вҲ’1
k
Pk
j=1 f(Xn+j)| for some f : X вҶ’R.
(2) Validation shift. A second approach is to examine the reliability of estimation via synthetic shift.
One may create artificial distribution shifts in the labeled data, such as by scaffold splitting; with one
fold as the calibration data and the other as the test data, one can use the known labels to examine the
uniformity of p-values and the quality of the density ratio estimation algorithm.
(3) Sensitivity analysis. Finally, one may conduct sensitivity analysis to probe the robustness of
CONFHIT to perturbations of estimated weights. Similar to causal inference (Rosenbaum, 2005), we
may assume the correct weights are within a distance from the estimated weights, and examine the
worst-case p-values and testing results while varying the weights within the assumed range.
While generative models do not naturally provide a built-in notion of reliability, CONFHIT augments
them with new capabilities for practical deployment; it is model-agnostic and only relies on a scalar
quantity, the density ratio, that can be validated and stress-tested, thereby making the uncertainty
measurable and more robust than trusting the raw model alone (Section 4.5, вҖңAdditional baselinesвҖқ).
4
EXPERIMENTS
4.1
TASKS, MODELS, AND DATASETS
We evaluate our framework on two representative conditional molecule-generation tasks and highlight
the model-agnostic nature of our approach by employing five generative models spanning VAE,
6


autoregressive transformers, diffusion models, and Bayesian Flow Networks. For evaluation purposes,
we use computational oracles to judge the property of generated samples since wet-lab evaluation is
infeasible (Jin et al., 2020); the oracle is not used in running CONFHIT.
App. 1: Constrained Molecule Optimisation (CMO). Given a seed molecule ВҜX that fails a target
property, the goal is to generate a molecule X that is close in Tanimoto distance to ВҜX and satisfies
the property. This task reflects lead-optimisation workflows where experimental assays provide
ground-truth. Following the standard practice of using a computational oracle, in our experiments,
we use the property DRD2 receptor binding (DRD2), with success (Y = 1) if DRD2(x) > 0.5.
Additional comphrehensive results on Quantitative Estimate of Drug-likeness improvement (QED)
reported in the Appendix E.2.
To demonstrate the compatibility of CONFHIT with general generative models, we employ two
state-of-the-art CMO models: 1. HGRAPH2GRAPH, a hierarchical VAE editing scaffold-level motifs
while preserving validity (Jin et al., 2020); 2. SELF-EDIT, an autoregressive transformer generating
SELFIES strings to optimise the property while maintaining similarity to the seed (Jiao et al., 2023).
We take a subset of the training split in Chemprop (Yang et al., 2019) of ChEMBL data (Gaulton
et al., 2012) as the labeled calibration data { ВҜXi, Xi, Yi}n
i=1 (seed input, sample from past campaigns,
and oracle property), following Jin et al. (2020). Inactive molecules in the test split serve as test
inputs { ВҜX(в„“)}L
в„“=1. For each ВҜX(в„“), the model generates {X(в„“)
n+j}m
j=1.
App. 2: Structure-Based Drug Discovery (SBDD). Here the input ВҜX is a 3D protein binding pocket,
and the task is to generate ligands X that bind to it, so the label Y depends on ( ВҜX, X). Following
standard practice, for evaluation purposes only, we use AutoDock Vina (Trott & Olson, 2010) as
computation oracle and label a ligand as a hit if its score is below вҲ’7.5 kcal molвҲ’1; such a threshold
captures about 75% of known active samples in CrossDock (Francoeur et al., 2020a).
In this task, we apply CONFHIT with three state-of-the-art SBDD models: TargetDiff(Guan et al.,
2023), an SE(3)-equivariant diffusion model conditioned on pocket meshes; DecompDiff(Guan et al.,
2024), using decomposed priors to separate structural components; MolCRAFT (Qu et al., 2024), a
Bayesian Field Network operating fully in continuous parameter space.
The calibration data are protein-ligand pairs {( ВҜXi, Xi)}n
i=1 from CrossDocked (Francoeur et al.,
2020b). Following the same split in Guan et al. (2023), we use the proteins in the test split as inputs
{ ВҜX(в„“)}L
в„“=1, and the model generates candidate ligands {Xn+j}N
j=1 given each input ВҜX(в„“).
4.2
IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
Conformity Score Function. We define V using a property prediction model ЛҶВө(В·):
вҖў CMO. For both properties (QED and DRD2) we train a binary classifier ЛҶВө(В·) with molecular graph
inputs using the Chemprop library (Yang et al., 2019) and ChEMBL data splits in Jin et al. (2020).
вҖў SBDD. We train an EGNN ЛҶВө(В·) (Satorras et al., 2021) on PDBBind crystal structure data (Wang
et al., 2005) to predict binding affinity, using TARGETDIFF (Guan et al., 2023) codebase.
In both tasks, ЛҶВө is trained on data independent of calibration and test sets. Training details, hyperpa-
rameters, and compute for ЛҶВө and the generative models are given in Appendix C. For conciseness,
we present most results with the Max-pooling score V (x1:n0, xn+1:n+k) = max1вүӨjвүӨk ЛҶВө(xn+j).
Comparisons to other score functions appear in Figure 4.
Density Ratio Estimation. We leverage kernel density estimation (KDE) for constructing the weights
in our p-values. Following the discussion in Lemma A.2 in Appendix A.2, the desired weight w(В·)
equals the marginal density ratio of generated samples, regardless of hit status. Also, plugging in the
densities for the joint distribution of input/generation pairs, denoted as Лңq(ВҜx, x) and Лңp(ВҜx, x), yields the
same p-value due to normalization. Thus, we directly estimate Лңp(В·) and Лңq(В·) to ensure sufficient data
for estimation. Following CODRUG (Laghuvarapu et al., 2023), we extract latent features g(ВҜx, x)
from the penultimate layer of the property model, and fit Gaussian KDEs ЛҶp(ВҜx, x) and ЛҶq(g(ВҜx, x)) on
calibration and test samples, forming weights Лңw(ВҜx, x) = ЛҶq(g(ВҜx, x))/ЛҶp(g(ВҜx, x)).
4.3
RESULTS: CERTIFICATION
In this section, we present results of the certification experiment, where the goal (1) is to certify the
presence of a hit in a batch of fixed size N at level Оұ. Our evaluation focuses on (i) error control, and
(ii) power, i.e., the frequency of successfully certifying hits. Results for both CMO and SBDD tasks
7


Figure 2: Certification results. Left: realized error rates at fixed N for different models and error levels Оұ in
SBDD (upper) and CMO (lower). Middle: average error rates while varying budget N. Right: power, i.e., the
fraction of actives certified at various error level Оұ and budget N values. The dashed line denotes the ideal
y = x error bound. Our method consistently achieves valid coverage across scenarios. Results are averaged over
5 random runs; error bars and additional results for other values of N are in Appendix E.2
Figure 3: Design results. Error rate at fixed N for different methods (left), mean set sizes averaged across
methods at different values of N (middle), and empty set percentage at different values of N (right) across target
levels Оұ. The top row shows results for SBDD and the bottom for CMO. Dashed black line in the error plots
indicates the ideal y = x bound. CONFHIT achieves tight error control while producing substantially smaller
sets. Results are averaged over 5 random runs; additional results are provided in the Appendix E.2.
across different generative models are shown in Figure 2. The left panel reports the empirical error
rate, i.e. the frequency of certifying sets that contain no hit. Across all settings, we observe tight
error control. The middle panel shows the error rates (averaged across methods for visualization)
for different budgets N, and we observe that the error stays below the target error levels. Finally,
the right panel plots the fraction of sets containing an active that are certified as a function of Оұ
at different, where CONFHIT is able to detect true hits with satisfactory power. As expected, this
fraction increases with the significance level and set size N.
4.4
RESULTS: DESIGN
In this section, we present experiments for the design problem in (2), where we prune a generated
batch to obtain compact subsets while preserving tight error control. As summarized in Figure 3, our
nested procedure refines candidate sets while preserving statistical guarantees.
As we address a novel problem under unique constraints, there are no directly comparable baselines
(existing methods in conformal generative modeling (Quach et al., 2023; Kladny et al., 2024) are
not comparable due to the unavailable oracle). Instead, we consider two baselines to demonstrate
the benefits of CONFHIT: (i) Bonferroni correction. Given N test samples, we threshold the
one-test-sample p-value (set each candidate as the test set in (3)) at Оұ/N. It provides a stronger
guarantee of no false certification for any test sample, but can be conservative. (ii) Certification-only.
The certification procedure from Section 4.3, which serves as a baseline without pruning.
8


Compared with Bonferroni, our approach substantially outperforms in both CMO and SBDD
tasks. At stringent levels (Оұ = 0.1), Bonferroni yields empty sets for nearly 100% of SBDD inputs,
while CONFHITleads to empty set frequency as low as 16% for N = 152. Moreover, in the rare
cases where Bonferroni is able to make discoveries, it usually exhaust the full budget, whereas
CONFHIT consistently prunes to 2-5 molecules (30-50% of the full budget). Due to conservativeness,
Bonferroni has low or near zero error rates, whereas CONFHIT achieves adaptive and tight coverage.
Compared with certification-only whose results are in Figure 2, the nested procedure successfully
prunes promising initial large sets to smaller ones. For example, in SBDD at Оұ = 0.1 with N = 15,
the nested procedure reduces the mean set size to about 4 molecules without compromising the error
control. Similar improvements hold in CMO, where nested pruning typically halves the certified set
size while delivering tighter agreement between realized and nominal error.
In summary, CONFHIT delivers compact certified sets with strict error control. It largely avoids
vacuous results and yields smaller, more actionable shortlists with higher coverage for subsequent
experimental validation. This makes our framework particularly valuable in scientific discovery
workflows, where experimental budgets require both statistical confidence and practical tractability.
4.5
ADDITIONAL INVESTIGATIONS
Choice of test statistic. While we report the results with the Max-pool conformity score, Figure 4
evaluate CONFHIT with five choices of the conformity score V (В·)вҖ”min, mean, likelihood-ratio
(LR), rank-sum, and maxвҖ”on the SBDD task with TARGETDIFF at a budget of N = 5; results
for other tasks and budgets show similar patterns and are provided in the Appendix E.2. Across
the board, CONFHIT consistently keeps the realised error rate close to the target Оұ, confirming the
model-agnostic validity. However, the choice of the score does affect power: max certifies most often
(e.g., 73 % of seeds at Оұ = 0.1), while rank-sum is the most conservative.
Figure 4: Comparison of score statistics on TargetDiff (SBDD, N=5). Left: rejection (power) at Оұ = 0.1, 0.3.
Right: error vs. Оұ. All remain valid; the max statistic shows the highest power.
Choice of property prediction model. As we discussed in the end of Section 3.1, the choice of the
property prediction model only affects the power. We performed an ablation study with weak property
prediction models by adding noninformative perturbations to the predictions. CONFHIT maintains
robust error rate control despite that the weaker predictor decreases the power; see Appendix F.
Distribution shift adjustment. The guarantees of CONFHIT in both certification and design rely
on valid p-values, which further hinges on distribution shift adjustment. As an ablation study, we
compare CONFHIT with the version without distribution shift adjustment, i.e., taking w(В·) вүЎ1.
We observe that running CONFHIT without distribution shift adjustment can violate the coverage
guarantee especially for stringent target error rates, for example, using the TARGETDIFF model in the
SBDD task, and the SELFEDIT model in the CMO task. The differences are highlighted in Figure
5a. In addition, we plot the distribution of p-values computed with negative samples across different
datasets and observe that they are approximately uniform; see Appendix E.3.
Robustness check. We exemplify the robustness diagnostics in Section 3.3, with a sensitivity-analysis
in Appendix H.1, synthetic validation with a realistic scaffold split in Appendix H.2 and a balance
check based on key features in Appendix H.3. First, by perturbing the weights via a power law,
we showcase how to examine the robustness of CONFHITвҖҷs output, with additional evaluation to
show the mild degradation of error control. Meanwhile, CONFHIT achieves tight error control under
synthetic scaffold splits, and the estimated density ratio improves the balance in key features.
2Returning empty sets means no enough confidence under the generation budget N, which is inevitable
without strong assumptions on the generative power.
9


Figure 5: (a) Distribution shift adjustment (left). Coverage violations when CONFHIT is run without density
correction. (b) Budget analysis (middle and right). Fraction of inputs with at least one hit under increasing
generation budget. Solid lines: fraction of actual hits; dashed lines: predicted fraction of hits.
Additional baselines. We additionally evaluate two baselines. (i) A heuristic baseline which uses
an estimated probability to calibrate the generation batch size (Appendix G.1). It violates error
control when the estimation quality moderately degrades; in contrast, CONFHIT is model-agnostic
and maintains validity under the same degradation (Appendix F), showing that principled uncertainty
quantification provides robust guarantees. (ii) An oracle baseline which (unrealistically) labels
generated samples (Quach et al., 2023) yet without covariate shift adjustment (Appendix G.2). Even
with oracle access, ignoring the distribution shift leads to both high errors and high frequency of
empty sets (perhaps since it relies on exchangeability between inputs, which reduces the sample size).
4.6
WORKING UNDER AN OVERALL BUDGET
Finally, we demonstrate the utility of CONFHIT for allocating a fixed budget across multiple tasks. In
drug discovery campaigns, scientists often work with multiple generation inputs but can only validate
a limited number of samples experimentally. In this setting, the confidence in valid hits provided by
CONFHIT serves as a practical heuristic for budget allocationвҖ”deciding how many candidates to
synthesize per task. Given K inputs (tasks) and a total budget B, we fix a maximum size N for each
input; then, CONFHIT suggests the smallest subset which contains a hit for each input at a confidence
level Оұ. We then vary the value of Оұ until the budget is exhausted. Finally, we estimate the fraction
of tasks whose output set contains a hit via (1 вҲ’Оұ) minus the fraction of empty sets (i.e., when
CONFHIT fails to certify a hit at level Оұ). The exact procedure is described in Appendix D.
In Figure 5b, we compare predicted and realized positives under different budget levels (measured
as multiples of the number K of inputs). Across both CMO and SBDD, the realized fraction of
actives consistently exceeds our estimates, showing the reliability and practical utility of CONFHIT.
Complementing the certification and design results, this budge allocation perspective confirms the
robust empirical performance of CONFHIT when coupled with more complex, albeit heuristic,
applications. Of course, we acknowledge that this is only a heuristic approach without formal
theoretical guarantees, and the application of CONFHIT in such tasks warrants careful future study.
5
CONCLUSION
In this work, we introduced CONFHIT, a model-agnostic framework that delivers finite-sample
guarantees for conditional generative models. By re-weighting calibration data with density ratios,
CONFHIT corrects the distributional shift from historical compounds to model-generated candidates,
thereby removing the need for an external experimental oracle, an assumption required by all existing
conformal-prediction approaches in generative modeling. Building on these adjusted weights, we
derive a nested conformal p-value that certifies the probability of sampling at least one viable
molecule. Across two standard benchmarks for optimization of constrained molecules and structure-
based design, and across a wide range of methods and budget regimes, CONFHIT consistently
provides valid coverage guarantees while maintaining compact certified sets. Our results establish
CONFHIT as a principled and practical framework for both certification and design, enabling reliable
generative modeling under stringent resource constraints.
Limitations The coverage guarantee relies on density-ratio estimates, which can be noisy when
the calibration set is small or the feature extractor is poorly aligned with the target domain. Our
experiments focus on small molecules; extending the approach to proteins or other macromolecules
with larger, more structured generative space will require additional work. Validation currently relies
on in-silico oracles; without wet-lab confirmation, transferability remains to be seen. Demonstrating
robustness across broader chemical and experimental settings is a key direction for future research.
10


6
ETHICS STATEMENT
Because the framework is model-agnostic and targets conditional molecule generation, we expect
it to benefit diverse discovery pipelines in chemistry, biology, and materials science. The work
builds on long-standing practices in molecular modeling, so we do not anticipate negative societal
consequences. However, we acknowledge potential dual use, such as designing harmful compounds,
and responsible use will require oversight and access controls.
LLM Usage The use of LLMs in this work is limited to polishing the writing and assisting with
code-related tasks.
7
REPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT
All experimental settings are described in Section 4.1, with an extended discussion of
implementation details in Appendix C. Information on compute resources and runtime
is provided in Section C.4.
The code, datasets along with the config files used for
experiments
in
this
work
are
included
at
https://github.com/siddharthal/
CONFHIT-Conformal-Generative-Design-with-Oracle-Free-Guarantees
and are further detailed in Appendix C.5.
REFERENCES
Anastasios N. Angelopoulos, Stephen Bates, Emmanuel J. CandГЁs, Michael I. Jordan, and Lihua
Lei. Learn then test: Calibrating predictive algorithms to achieve risk control. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2110.01052, 2021.
Tian Bai and Ying Jin. Optimized conformal selection: Powerful selective inference after conformity
score optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.17983, 2024.
Tianyu Bai, Puchen Tang, Yifan Xu, Vladimir Svetnik, Abbass Khalili, Xusheng Yu, and Andrew
Yang. Conformal selection for efficient and accurate compound screening in drug discovery. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2402.12345, 2024.
Stephen Bates, Emmanuel CandГЁs, Lihua Lei, Yaniv Romano, and Matteo Sesia. Testing for outliers
with conformal p-values. The Annals of Statistics, 51(1):149вҖ“178, 2023.
Eli Ben-Michael, Avi Feller, David A Hirshberg, and JosГ© R Zubizarreta. The balancing act in causal
inference. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.14831, 2021.
Gabriele Corso, Hannes StГӨrk, Bowen Jing, Regina Barzilay, and Tommi Jaakkola. Diffdock:
Diffusion steps, twists, and turns for molecular docking. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.01776, 2022.
Isidro CortГ©s-Ciriano and Andreas Bender. Deep confidence: A computationally efficient framework
for calculating reliable prediction errors for deep neural networks. Journal of Chemical Information
and Modeling, 59(3):1269вҖ“1281, 2018.
Isidro CortГ©s-Ciriano and Andreas Bender. Concepts and applications of conformal prediction in
computational drug discovery. arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.03569, 2019.
Clara Fannjiang and Ji Won Park. Reliable algorithm selection for machine learningвҖ“guided design.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.20767, 2025.
Clara Fannjiang, Stephen Bates, Anastasios N. Angelopoulos, Jennifer Listgarten, and Michael I.
Jordan. Conformal prediction under feedback covariate shift for biomolecular design. Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences, 119(43):e2204569119, 2022.
Ronald Aylmer Fisher and Ronald A Fisher. The design of experiments. Springer, 1971.
Patrick Francoeur, Ruben J. Gomez-Bombarelli, Jianfeng Pei, and Rohit Singh. Three-dimensional
convolutional neural networks and a crossdocked dataset for structure-based drug design. Journal
of Chemical Information and Modeling, 60(9):4200вҖ“4215, 2020a. doi: 10.1021/acs.jcim.0c00411.
11


Paul G Francoeur, Tomohide Masuda, Jocelyn Sunseri, Andrew Jia, Richard B Iovanisci, Ian Snyder,
and David R Koes. Three-dimensional convolutional neural networks and a cross-docked data set
for structure-based drug design. Journal of chemical information and modeling, 60(9):4200вҖ“4215,
2020b.
Anna Gaulton, Louisa J Bellis, A Patricia Bento, Jon Chambers, Mark Davies, Anne Hersey, Yvonne
Light, Shaun McGlinchey, David Michalovich, Bissan Al-Lazikani, et al. Chembl: a large-scale
bioactivity database for drug discovery. Nucleic acids research, 40(D1):D1100вҖ“D1107, 2012.
Jiaqi Guan, Wesley Wei Qian, Xingang Peng, Yufeng Su, Jian Peng, and Jianzhu Ma. 3d equivariant
diffusion for target-aware molecule generation and affinity prediction. In International Conference
on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2023. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=
kJqXEPXMsE0.
Jiaqi Guan, Xiangxin Zhou, Yuwei Yang, Yu Bao, Jian Peng, Jianzhu Ma, Qiang Liu, Liang Wang,
and Quanquan Gu. Decompdiff: diffusion models with decomposed priors for structure-based
drug design. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.07902, 2024.
Rafael GГіmez-Bombarelli, Jennifer N. Wei, David Duvenaud, and et al. Automatic chemical design
using a data-driven continuous representation of molecules. ACS Central Science, 4(2):268вҖ“276,
2018.
Jonathan Ho, Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, David J Fleet, Mohammad Norouzi, and Tim Salimans.
Cascaded diffusion models for high fidelity image generation. Journal of Machine Learning
Research, 23(47):1вҖ“33, 2022.
Emiel Hoogeboom, Victor Garcia Satorras, and et al. Equivariant diffusion for molecular generation
in 3d. In International Conference on Machine Learning, 2022.
Daniel G Horvitz and Donovan J Thompson. A generalization of sampling without replacement from
a finite universe. Journal of the American statistical Association, 47(260):663вҖ“685, 1952.
Xiaoyu Hu and Jing Lei. A two-sample conditional distribution test using conformal prediction and
weighted rank sum. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 119(546):1136вҖ“1154, 2024.
John Ingraham, Vikas K. Garg, Regina Barzilay, and Tommi Jaakkola. Generative models for
graph-based protein design. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2019.
Miao Jiao, Yiqing Wang, Xiufeng Chen, and Tien Huynh. Self-edit: Structure-constrained molecular
optimisation using selfies editing transformer. Applied Intelligence, 53(18):21455вҖ“21471, 2023.
doi: 10.1007/s10489-023-04915-8.
Wengong Jin, Regina Barzilay, and Tommi Jaakkola. Hierarchical generation of molecular graphs
using structural motifs. In Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Machine Learn-
ing (ICML), pp. 4839вҖ“4848, 2020. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v119/
jin20a.html.
Ying Jin and Emmanuel J CandГЁs. Model-free selective inference under covariate shift via weighted
conformal p-values. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09291, 2023a.
Ying Jin and Emmanuel J CandГЁs. Selection by prediction with conformal p-values. Journal of
Machine Learning Research, 24(244):1вҖ“41, 2023b.
Klaus-Rudolf Kladny, Bernhard SchГ¶lkopf, and Michael Muehlebach.
Conformal generative
modeling with improved sample efficiency through sequential greedy filtering. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.01660, 2024.
Damjan Krstajic. Critical assessment of conformal prediction methods applied in binary classification
settings. Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, 61(10):4823вҖ“4826, 2021. doi: 10.
1021/acs.jcim.1c00549. URL https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jcim.1c00549. PMID:
34550693.
12


Siddhartha Laghuvarapu, Zhen Lin, and Jimeng Sun. Codrug: Conformal drug property prediction
with density estimation under covariate shift. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
36:37728вҖ“37747, 2023.
Ali Madani, Bryan McCann, Nikhil Naik, Nitish Shirish Keskar, Namrata Anand, Raphael R. Eguchi,
Po-Ssu Huang, and Richard Socher. Progen: Language modeling for protein generation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2004.03497, 2020.
Ali Madani, Bryan McCann, Nikhil Naik, and et al. Progen: Language modeling for protein
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.03497, 2021.
XuanLong Nguyen, Martin J Wainwright, and Michael I Jordan. Estimating divergence functionals
and the likelihood ratio by convex risk minimization. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory,
56(11):5847вҖ“5861, 2010.
Harris Papadopoulos, Kostas Proedrou, Vassilis Vovk, and Alex Gammerman. Inductive confidence
machines for regression. In Proceedings of the 13th European Conference on Machine Learning
(ECML), pp. 345вҖ“356, 2002.
Drew Prinster, Suchi Saria, and Anqi Liu. Jaws-x: Addressing efficiency bottlenecks of conformal
prediction under standard and feedback covariate shift. In Proceedings of the 40th International
Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 2023.
Yanru Qu, Keyue Qiu, Yuxuan Song, Jingjing Gong, Jiawei Han, Mingyue Zheng, Hao Zhou, and
Wei-Ying Ma. Molcraft: structure-based drug design in continuous parameter space. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.12141, 2024.
Victor Quach, Adam Fisch, Tal Schuster, Adam Yala, Jae Ho Sohn, Tommi S Jaakkola, and Regina
Barzilay. Conformal language modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.10193, 2023.
Alec Radford, Karthik Narasimhan, Tim Salimans, Ilya Sutskever, et al. Improving language
understanding by generative pre-training. 2018.
Paul R Rosenbaum. Sensitivity analysis in observational studies. Encyclopedia of statistics in
behavioral science, 4:1809вҖ“1814, 2005.
VДұctor Garcia Satorras, Emiel Hoogeboom, and Max Welling. E (n) equivariant graph neural networks.
In International conference on machine learning, pp. 9323вҖ“9332. PMLR, 2021.
Hooman Shahrokhi, Devjeet Raj Roy, Yan Yan, Venera Arnaoudova, and Janaradhan Rao Doppa.
Conformal prediction sets for deep generative models via reduction to conformal regression. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2503.10512, 2025.
Alexander Shapiro. Monte carlo sampling methods. Handbooks in operations research and manage-
ment science, 10:353вҖ“425, 2003.
Hidetoshi Shimodaira. Improving predictive inference under covariate shift by weighting the log-
likelihood function. Journal of statistical planning and inference, 90(2):227вҖ“244, 2000.
Alexey Strokach and Philip M. Kim. Deep generative modeling for protein design. Current Opinion
in Structural Biology, 72:226вҖ“236, 2022. doi: 10.1016/j.sbi.2021.11.008.
Masashi Sugiyama, Shinichi Nakajima, Hisashi Kashima, Paul Buenau, and Motoaki Kawanabe.
Direct importance estimation with model selection and its application to covariate shift adaptation.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 20, 2007.
Masashi Sugiyama, Taiji Suzuki, and Takafumi Kanamori. Density ratio estimation in machine
learning. Cambridge University Press, 2012.
Jiangming Sun, Lars Carlsson, Ernst Ahlberg, Ulf Norinder, Ola Engkvist, and Hongming Chen. Ap-
plying mondrian cross-conformal prediction to estimate prediction confidence on large imbalanced
bioactivity data sets. Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, 57(7):1591вҖ“1598, 2017.
13


Fredrik Svensson, Natalia Aniceto, Ulf Norinder, Isidro CortГ©s-Ciriano, Ola Spjuth, Lars Carlsson,
and Andreas Bender. Conformal regression for quantitative structureвҖ“activity relationship model-
ingвҖ”quantifying prediction uncertainty. Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, 58(5):
1132вҖ“1140, 2018.
Ryan J Tibshirani, Rina Foygel Barber, Emmanuel Candes, and Aaditya Ramdas. Conformal
prediction under covariate shift. Advances in neural information processing systems, 32, 2019.
Oleg Trott and Arthur J Olson. Autodock vina: improving the speed and accuracy of docking with
a new scoring function, efficient optimization, and multithreading. Journal of computational
chemistry, 31(2):455вҖ“461, 2010.
Dennis Ulmer, Chrysoula Zerva, and AndrГ© F. T. Martins. Non-exchangeable conformal language
generation with nearest neighbors. 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.00707.
arXiv:2402.00707.
Vladimir Vovk, Alexander Gammerman, and Glenn Shafer. Algorithmic learning in a random world,
volume 29. Springer, 2005.
Renxiao Wang, Xueliang Fang, Yipin Lu, Chao-Yie Yang, and Shaomeng Wang. The pdbbind
database: methodologies and updates. Journal of medicinal chemistry, 48(12):4111вҖ“4119, 2005.
Tian Xie, Xiang Fu, Octavian-Eugen Ganea, Regina Barzilay, and Tommi Jaakkola. Crystal diffusion
variational autoencoder for periodic material generation. In International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2022.
Kevin Yang, Kyle Swanson, Wenhao Jin, Connor Coley, and Philipp Eiden et al. Analyzing learned
molecular representations for property prediction. Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling,
59(8):3370вҖ“3388, 2019. doi: 10.1021/acs.jcim.9b00237.
Jason Yim, Andrew Campbell, Andrew YK Foong, Michael Gastegger, JosГ© JimГ©nez-Luna, Sarah
Lewis, Victor Garcia Satorras, Bastiaan S Veeling, Regina Barzilay, Tommi Jaakkola, et al. Fast
protein backbone generation with se (3) flow matching, 2023.
Claudio Zeni, Robert Pinsler, Daniel ZГјgner, Andrew Fowler, Matthew Horton, et al. Mattergen: A
generative model for inorganic materials design. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.03687, 2023.
Jin Zhang, Ulf Norinder, and Fredrik Svensson. Deep learningвҖ“based conformal prediction of toxicity.
Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, 61(6):2648вҖ“2657, 2021.
A
ADDITIONAL DISCUSSION
A.1
NON-RANDOMIZED CONFORMAL P-VALUE
Let О  be the collection of all permutations of {1, . . . , n0, n + 1, . . . , n + k}. For any permutation
ПҖ вҲҲО , we denote the score obtained by permuting the observed features by ПҖ as
V (ПҖ; X) = V (XПҖ(1), . . . , XПҖ(n0), XПҖ(n+1), . . . , XПҖ(n+k)).
We additionally denote the identity mapping as ПҖ0, i.e., ПҖ0(i) = i for any i. Finally, we define
pk =
P
ПҖвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖ; X) 1{V (ПҖ0; X) вүӨV (ПҖ; X)}
P
ПҖвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖ; X)
.
(6)
Here, ВҜw(ПҖ; X) = Qk
j=1 w(XПҖ(n+j)), the joint likelihood ratio after permutation ПҖ, where w(x) is
the density ratio. In a nutshell, pk considers all permutations of the inactive calibration samples
and the test samples, and compute the weighted rank of the score computed with observed data,
V (ПҖ0; X), among all scores with permuted data.
The validity of the deterministic p-value is established in the following theorem, whose proof is in
Appendix B.3.
Theorem A.1. Under the covariate shift assumption, it holds for any fixed t вҲҲ[0, 1] that
P
 pk вүӨt
 max1вүӨjвүӨkYn+j = 0

вүӨt.
14


A.2
JOINT WEIGHTED EXCHANGEABILITY
In this part, we characterize the exchangeability structure of the inactive calibration data {Xi}iвҲҲI0
and the test samples {Xn+j}k
j=1 under the null case
Hk :
max
1вүӨjвүӨk Yn+j = 0.
Here for generality, we use the index k to indicate that {Xn+j}k
j=1 might be a subset of the original
proposal. The following lemma characterizes the distribution of these data conditional on the labels.
Its proof simply applies the BayesвҖҷ rule, whose proof is deferred to Appendix B.2 for completeness.
Lemma A.2. Conditional on {Zi}n
i=1 вҲӘ{Zn+j}jвүҘ1 as well as max1вүӨjвүӨk Yn+j = 0, the features
{Xi}iвҲҲI0 are i.i.d. from P0 := PX | Y =0, whereas {Xn+j}k
j=1 are i.i.d. from Q0 := QX | Y =0.
Furthermore, dQ0/ dP0(x) = w(x), where w(x) = dQ
dP (x, y) = dQX
dPX (x) is the density ratio.
Lemma A.2 states that, conditional on all labels, on the вҖңnullвҖқ event that Hk is true, the вҖңmarginalвҖқ
density ratio w(x) suffices to adjust for distribution shifts between the inactive calibration data in I0
and the newly generated data. We discuss its implications on density ratio estimation below.
Remark A.3. When w(В·) is unknown, Lemma A.2 justifies using a random subset of the labeled data
and an independent set of generated samples (no matter whether they are active) to estimate w(В·).
An alternative approach is to directly estimate the density ratio between {Xi}iвҲҲI0 and {Xn+j}k
j=1.
However, this approach leads to quite limited sample sizes when k is small.
Lemma A.2 allows to characterize the exchangeability structure among calibration and test points,
extending the weighted exchangeability notion (Tibshirani et al., 2019) to multiple test points. It
is a consequence of a conditional permutation-style result which extends foundational results in
conformal prediction (Vovk et al., 2005; Tibshirani et al., 2019).
Let [X] = [X1, . . . , Xn0, Xn+1, . . . , Xk] be the unordered set of the features, and fix any value
[x] = [x1, . . . , xn0, xn0+1, . . . , xn0+k]. Then, given [X] = [x], the only randomness that remains
lies in which value in x corresponds to each Xi. Proposition A.4 is a direct implication of Lemma A.2,
extending the weighted exchangeability notion in Tibshirani et al. (2019) to multiple test points.
Proposition A.4. Let О  be the collection of all permutations of [n0 + k]. Then, for any fixed values
x1, . . . , xn0, xn0+1, . . . , xn0+k, and any permutation ПҖ: [n0 + k] вҶ’[n0 + k],
Pcond
X1 = xПҖ(1), . . . , Xn0+k = xПҖ(n0+k)
 [X] = [x]

=
ВҜw(ПҖ; x1:n0+k)
P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x1:n0+k),
where we define ВҜw(ПҖ; x1:n0+k) := Qk
j=1 w(xПҖ(n0+j)), and Pcond(В·) denotes the distribution after
conditioning on {Zi}n
i=1 вҲӘ{Zn+j}jвүҘ1 as well as max1вүӨjвүӨk Yn+j = 0.
Proposition A.4 describes the probability of (X1, . . . , Xn0+k) taking on the value of any permutation
of x conditional on the unordered set of their realized values. Such a conditional permutation-style
result is foundational for many results in conformal inference, thereby connecting our p-value to
existing conformal p-values. Specifically, when w(В·) вүЎ1 and m = 1, it reduces to the standard
exchangeability condition, and the p-value (6) coincides with the classical conformal p-value. In
general with m = 1, it reduces to the weighted exchangeablity studied in (Tibshirani et al., 2019),
and our p-value (6) coincides with the weighted conformal p-value (Tibshirani et al., 2019; Jin &
CandГЁs, 2023a). We discuss the connections in the next subsection.
A.3
CONFORMAL P-VALUE FOR ONE TEST POINT
Our p-values build on conformal prediction ideas (Vovk et al., 2005). To provide more contexts, we
briefly discuss the widely used conformal p-value for one test point, the key concept in deriving
conformal prediction sets. Given any function s: X Г— Y вҶ’R (often referred to as вҖңnonconformity
scoreвҖқ) whose training process is independent of the calibration data {(Xi, Yi)}n
i=1 and a new test
point Xn+1, the conformal p-value is defined as
p(y) = 1 + Pn
i=1 1{s(Xi, Yi) вүӨs(Xn+1, y)}
n + 1
.
(7)
15


When {(Xi, Yi)}n+1
i=1 are exchangeable (such as i.i.d.) across i вҲҲ[n + 1], one can show that p(Yn+1)
is dominated by Unif[0, 1]. This property is key in constructing prediction sets for the unknown
Yn+1. Recently, conformal p-values based on exchangeability are used in the context of multiple
testing for detecting outliers (Bates et al., 2023) and identifying test instances with desirable label
values (Jin & CandГЁs, 2023b). Extensions to covariate shift settings are also studied for individual
p-value (Tibshirani et al., 2019) and multiple testing (Jin & CandГЁs, 2023a).
Here we briefly discuss Remark 3.2. Note that when m = 1, n := n0 and w(x) вүЎ1 in (7), setting
V (x1, . . . , xn0, xn+1) = s(xn+1, 0),
where we use y = 0 as a placeholder, our p-value (6) reduces to p(0) in (7).
A.4
CONNECTION TO OUTLIER DETECTION UNDER COVARIATE SHIFT
A more explicit connection is that of our p-value to the outlier detection p-value. Formally, for a test
point Xn+1 independent of calibration вҖңinliersвҖқ {Xi}n
i=1
i.i.d.
вҲјP, Bates et al. (2023) proposes using
the conformal p-value (the signs are flipped to be consistent with the current notations)
p = 1 + Pn
i=1 1{s(Xi) вүӨs(Xn+1)}
n + 1
to test the null hypothesis H0 : Xn+1 вҲјP, where s: X вҶ’R is a score indicating how likely a value
x is an outlier compared with the normal values under P. Under the null hypothesis H0, it can be
shown that the p-value p is dominated by Unif[0, 1].
Jin & CandГЁs (2023a) extend this problem to outlier detection under covariate shift, where
H0 : Xn+1 вҲјQ for some distribution Q obeying dQ/ dP(x) = w(x) for a known density ra-
tio w(В·). The corresponding weighted conformal p-value is
pw = w(Xn+1) + Pn
i=1 w(Xi) 1{s(Xi) вүӨs(Xn+1)}
Pn+1
i=1 w(Xi)
.
(8)
In this case, our p-value (6) reduces to (8) by setting
V (x1, . . . , xn0, xn+1) = s(xn+1).
That is, the score function in our setting can be viewed as an вҖңoutlierвҖқ score for the new test point.
Again for generality, we use the index k (instead of N) to indicate that {Xn+j}k
j=1 might be
a subset of the original proposal. Finally, we remark that by Lemma A.2, our null hypotheses
Hk : max1вүӨjвүӨk Yn+j = 0 implies Xn+j
i.i.d.
вҲјQ0 where dQ0/ dP0(x) = w(x) and {Xi}iвҲҲI0
i.i.d.
вҲј
P0. Thus, our p-value pk can be viewed as testing the global null hypotheses
ЛңHk : {Xn+j}k
j=1
i.i.d.
вҲјQ0
using calibration вҖңinliersвҖқ {Xi}iвҲҲI0
i.i.d.
вҲјP0. Therefore, pk can be viewed as extending pw in (8) to
simultaneous inference for multiple test points.
A.5
CHOICE OF SCORE FUNCTION
Drawing inspirations from classical permutation tests, we suggest several natural choices:
вҖў Max-pooling. Since we aim to judge whether any one of the test samples is promising enough, a
natural choice is V (x1:n0, xn+1:n+k) = max1вүӨjвүӨk ЛҶВө(xn+j), the maximum predicted test score.
вҖў Sum-of-prediction. Inspired by FisherвҖҷs randomization test in causal inference (Fisher & Fisher,
1971), we can compare the average predicted values between test and calibration data. Up to
permutations, it is equivalent to setting V (x1:n0, xn+1:n+k) = Pk
j=1 ЛҶВө(xn+j).
вҖў Rank-sum statistic. Inspired by WilcoxonвҖҷs rank-sum test, we compare the sum of ranks of the
test points. Up to permutations, we set V (x1:n0, xn+1:n+k) = Pk
j=1 Rn+j, where Rn+j is the
rank of ЛҶВө(Xn+j) among {ЛҶВө(Xi)}n0
i=1 вҲӘ{ЛҶВө(Xn+в„“)}k
в„“=1 (in an ascending order).
16


вҖў Likelihood ratio statistic. Inspired by the likelihood ratio test, we observe that ЛҶВө(x) can be viewed
as an estimator P(Y = 1 | X = x), thus ЛҶВө(x)/(1 вҲ’ЛҶВө(Xn+j)) serves as an estimator for the
likelihood ratio for testing Yn+j = 0 given Xn+j. Accordingly, we consider the joint likelihood
ratio for the test points and set V (x1:n0, xn+1:n+k) = Pk
j=1 log(ЛҶВө(xn+j)/(1 вҲ’ЛҶВө(xn+j)).
A.6
NON-SPLIT VERSION OF CONFHIT
In the main text, we discuss CONFHIT when the conformity score is based on a pre-trained model
ЛҶВө: X вҶ’R, as standard in split conformal prediction (Vovk et al., 2005). This makes our framework
naturally compatible with any pre-trained prediction models in the literature (such as those in our
experiments). However, practitioners may want to involve all the labeled data in both model training
and calibration of p-values. In this part, we present an extension of CONFHIT where the labeled
inactive data are used in both training and calibration, yet still maintaining type-I error control.
Notably, this feature is unique to our problem (since we condition on the labels on the null event).
Formally, we let A be any generic training algorithm that produces a prediction model A(Z1, . . . , ZN)
based on labeled input data (Z1, . . . , ZN) with Zi = (Xi, Yi). We assume that the training process
of A is permutation invariant to its input data, which is satisfied by many commonly used algorithms.
We first consider the certification problem. Recall that the inactive labeled data is {(Xi, 0)}n0
i=1, the
active labeled data, without loss of generality, is {(Xi, 1)}n
i=n0+1, and the test data is {Xn+j}k
j=1.
We consider the imputed data ЛңZn+j = (Xn+j, 0) for 1 вүӨj вүӨk, and
ЛңD = (Z1, . . . , Zn, ЛңZn+1, . . . , ЛңZn+k).
Then, we let ЛҶВө(В·) = A( ЛңD), i.e., the trained model with the imputed data. Finally, we define the
conformity scores V as well as the p-value in the same way as in Section 3.1. These p-values for
each k вҲҲN+ can then be combined in the same way as in Section 3.2 to address the design problem.
It is straightforward to see that our p-value remains valid conditional on max1вүӨjвүӨk{Yn+j} = 0:
Since the trained model ЛҶВө is invariant to the permutation of data in ЛңD, under any permutation over
{1, . . . , n0, n + 1, . . . , n + k}, the trained model remains the same, and the weighted exchangeability
between the conformity scores follows exactly the same arguments.
B
TECHNICAL PROOF
B.1
PROOF OF THEOREM 3.4
Proof of Theorem 3.4. We define K0 = max{k вүӨN : max1вүӨjвүӨk Yn+j = 0}, i.e., the last instance
where all earlier molecules are non-positive. We also let K0 = 0 when Zn+1 = 1 so that K0 is
well-defined. Note that K0 is measurable with respect to {Yn+j}jвүҘ1. Conditional on {Yn+j}jвүҘ1,
K0 thus becomes deterministic, and by the definition of ЛҶN, we have
P

max
1вүӨjвүӨЛҶ
N
Yn+j = 0
 {Yn+j}jвүҘ1

= P

ЛҶN > 0, max
jвүӨЛҶ
N
Zn+j = 0
 {Yn+j}jвүҘ1

= P

0 < ЛҶN вүӨK0
 {Zn+j}jвүҘ1

1{K0 > 0}.
(*)
Since the p-values are monotone, we know ЛҶN вүӨK0 is equivalent to pK0 вүӨОұ, hence
(*) = P

pK0 вүӨОұ
 {Zn+j}jвүҘ1

1{K0 > 0}
= P

pK0 вүӨОұ
 {Zn+j}jвүҘ1, max
jвүӨK0 Zn+j = 0

1{K0 > 0} вүӨОұ.
Here the second line uses the fact that maxjвүӨK0 Zn+j is measurable with respect to {Zn+j}jвүҘ1, as
well as the validity condition (ii). Finally, by the tower property, we obtain the desired result.
B.2
PROOF OF LEMMA A.2
Proof of Lemma A.2. Conditional on all calibration and test labels as well as max1вүӨjвүӨk Yn+j = 0,
it is clear that the features in I0 are i.i.d. from P0 := PX | Y =0, whereas the features {Xn+j}k
j=1 are
17


i.i.d. from Q0 := QX | Y =0. By the BayesвҖҷ rule, the two distributions are related by
dQ0
dP0
(x) = Q(Y = 0 | X = x)
P(Y = 0 | X = x)
dQX
dPX
(x) = w(x),
where PX, QX are the distribution of X under P and Q, respectively. Here, we used the fact that
Q(Y = 0 | X = x) = P(Y = 0 | X = x) due to the covariate shift assumption.
B.3
PROOF OF THEOREM A.1
Proof of Theorem A.1. Throughout we condition on {Zi}iвүҘ1 and maxjвүӨk Zn+j = 0, and let Pcond
denote the distribution conditional on these information.
For any fixed vector x вҲҲX n0+k,
conditional on [X] = [x], we let pk(ПҖ; x) be the p-value obtained when the data is realized
as (X1, . . . , Xn0, Xn+1, . . . , Xn+k) = (xПҖ(1), . . . , xПҖ(n0), xПҖ(n+1), . . . , xПҖ(n+k)).
We assume
V (ПҖ; X)вҖҷs have no ties almost surely for simplicity, but all the arguments go through in general.
Under the conditions of Lemma A.2, Proposition A.4 implies that
Pcond(pk = pk(ПҖ; x) | [X] = [x])
= Pcond(X = (xПҖ(1), . . . , xПҖ(n+k)) | [X] = [x]) =
ВҜw(ПҖ; x)
P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x).
Therefore, noting that by definition
pk(ПҖ; x) =
P
ЛңПҖвҲҲО  ВҜw(ЛңПҖ в—ҰПҖ; x) 1{V (ЛңПҖ в—ҰПҖ; x) вүҘV (ПҖ; x)}
P
ЛңПҖвҲҲО  ВҜw(ЛңПҖ; x)
=
P
ЛңПҖвҲҲО  ВҜw(ЛңПҖ; x) 1{V (ЛңПҖ; x) вүҘV (ПҖ; x)}
P
ЛңПҖвҲҲО  ВҜw(ЛңПҖ; x)
,
and letting ПҖt be the permutation with the largest V (ПҖt; x) such that pk(ПҖt; x) вүӨt, we have
Pcond(pk вүӨt | [X] = [x]) =
X
ПҖвҲҲО 
1{pk(ПҖ; x) вүӨt} В· Pcond pk = pk(ПҖ; x)
 [X] = [x]

=
X
ПҖвҲҲО 
1{pk(ПҖ; x) вүӨt} В·
ВҜw(ПҖ; x)
P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)
=
X
ПҖвҲҲО 
1{V (ПҖ; x) вүҘV (ПҖt; x)} В·
ВҜw(ПҖ; x)
P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x) = pk(ПҖt; x) вүӨt.
Here the first equality uses the conditional distribution described above, the third equality uses the
monotonicity of pk(ПҖ; x) in V (ПҖ; x) and the definition of ПҖt, and the last equality holds by definition.
Marginalizing over [X] (but still conditional on {Zi}n+k
i=1 and max1вүӨjвүӨk Yn+j = 0) then leads to
the desired result.
B.4
PROOF OF THEOREM 3.1
Proof of Theorem 3.1. As usual, throughout, we condition on {Yi}iвүҘ1 and max1вүӨjвүӨk Yn+j = 0,
and use Pcond to denote the distribution given these information. We condition on the event that
the unordered set [x] = [x] for any fixed vector x = (x1, . . . , xn0, xn+1, . . . , xn+k). The labels
{Zi}n+k
i=1 are also conditioned on as usual. The randomness then comes from (i) which values in [x]
correspond to each data point, and (ii) the randomly sampled permutations.
Let ЛҶПҖ be the unique permutation of {1, . . . , n0, n+1, . . . , n+k} such that X = (xЛҶПҖ(1), . . . , xЛҶПҖ(n+k)).
Then for any permutation ПҖ вҲҲО , we have
V (ПҖ; X) = V (ПҖ в—ҰПҖ(0); X) = V (ПҖ в—ҰЛҶПҖ; x),
and similarly for ВҜw(ПҖ; X) = ВҜw(ПҖ в—ҰЛҶПҖ; x). By Proposition A.4, we know that P(ЛҶПҖ = ПҖ | [X] =
[x]) вҲқВҜw(ПҖ; x), where we recall the definition of ВҜw(ПҖ; x) = Qk
j=1 w(xПҖ(n+j)). In addition, we
have
prand
k
= ВҜw(ЛҶПҖ; x) + PB
b=1 ВҜw(ЛҶПҖ в—ҰПҖ(b); x) 1{V (ЛҶПҖ; x) вүӨV (ЛҶПҖ в—ҰПҖ(b); x)}
w(ЛҶПҖ; x) + PB
b=1 w(ЛҶПҖ в—ҰПҖ(b); x)
,
18


where x is the fixed vector, and the randomness comes from ЛҶПҖ and {ПҖ(b)}B
b=1.
For notational simplicity, we denote ЛҶПҖ(0) = ЛҶПҖ, and ЛҶПҖ(b) = ЛҶПҖ в—ҰПҖ(b) for b = 1, . . . , B. We now study
the joint distribution of (ЛҶПҖ(0), ЛҶПҖ(1), . . . , ЛҶПҖ(B)). For any fixed permutations ПҖ0, . . . , ПҖB вҲҲО , we note
Pcond
ЛҶПҖ(0) = ПҖ0, ЛҶПҖ(1) = ПҖ1, . . . , ЛҶПҖ(B) = ПҖB
 [X] = [x]

= Pcond
ЛҶПҖ = ПҖ0, ПҖ(1) = ПҖвҲ’1
0
в—ҰПҖ1, . . . , ЛҶПҖ(B) = ПҖвҲ’1
0
в—ҰПҖB
 [X] = [x]

=
1
|О |B В· Pcond(ЛҶПҖ = ПҖ0 | [X] = [x]) вҲқВҜw(ПҖ0; x),
where ПҖвҲ’1
0
is the inverse permutation of ПҖ0. Above, the last equality uses the fact that ПҖ(1), . . . , ПҖ(B)
are i.i.d. uniformly sampled from О  and independent of everything. Therefore, when we further
conditional on the unordered set of realized values of the permutations [ЛҶПҖ(0), ЛҶПҖ(1), . . . , ЛҶПҖ(B)] =
[ПҖ0, . . . , ПҖB] for any (fixed) value of ПҖ0, . . . , ПҖB, we know that
Pcond
(ЛҶПҖ(0), ЛҶПҖ(1), . . . , ЛҶПҖ(B)) = (ПҖПғ(0), . . . , ПҖПғ(B))
 [ЛҶПҖ(0), ЛҶПҖ(1), . . . , ЛҶПҖ(B)] = [ПҖ0, . . . , ПҖB], [X] = [x]

=
ВҜw(ПҖПғ(0); x)
P
ПғвҲҲЛңО  ВҜw(ПҖПғ(0); x),
where ЛңО  is the collection of all permutations of {0, 1, . . . , B}. This also means that for every
b вҲҲ{0, 1, . . . , B},
Pcond
ЛҶПҖ(0) = ПҖb
 [ЛҶПҖ(0), ЛҶПҖ(1), . . . , ЛҶПҖ(B)] = [ПҖ0, . . . , ПҖB]

=
ВҜw(ПҖb; x)
PB
bвҖІ=0 ВҜw(ПҖbвҖІ; x)
.
(9)
On the other hand, for any Пғ вҲҲЛңО , when (ЛҶПҖ(0), ЛҶПҖ(1), . . . , ЛҶПҖ(B)) = (ПҖПғ(0), . . . , ПҖПғ(B)), we have
pcond
k
= ВҜw(ПҖПғ(0); x) + PB
b=1 ВҜw(ПҖПғ(b); x) 1{V (ПҖПғ(0); x) вүӨV (ПҖПғ(b); x)}
ВҜw(ПҖПғ(0); x) + PB
b=1 ВҜw(ПҖПғ(b); x)
=
PB
b=0 ВҜw(ПҖb; x) 1{V (ПҖПғ(0); x) вүӨV (ПҖb; x)}
PB
b=0 ВҜw(ПҖb; x)
.
(10)
That is, the value of pcond
k
only depends on which value among (ПҖ0, . . . , ПҖB) the data permutation
ЛҶПҖ(0) takes on. Thus,
Pcond
prand
k
вүӨt
 [ЛҶПҖ(0), ЛҶПҖ(1), . . . , ЛҶПҖ(B)] = [ПҖ0, . . . , ПҖB], [X] = [x]

=
X
ПғвҲҲЛңО 
P

(ЛҶПҖ(0), ЛҶПҖ(1), . . . , ЛҶПҖ(B)) = (ПҖПғ(0), . . . , ПҖПғ(B))
 [ЛҶПҖ(0), ЛҶПҖ(1), . . . , ЛҶПҖ(B)] = [ПҖ0, . . . , ПҖB]

Г— 1
(PB
b=0 ВҜw(ПҖb; x) 1{V (ПҖПғ(0); x) вүӨV (ПҖb; x)}
PB
b=0 ВҜw(ПҖb; x)
вүӨt
)
=
B
X
bвҲ—=0
P

ЛҶПҖ(0) = ПҖbвҲ—
 [ЛҶПҖ(0), ЛҶПҖ(1), . . . , ЛҶПҖ(B)] = [ПҖ0, . . . , ПҖB]

Г— 1
(PB
b=0 ВҜw(ПҖb; x) 1{V (ПҖbвҲ—; x) вүӨV (ПҖb; x)}
PB
b=0 ВҜw(ПҖb; x)
вүӨt
)
=
B
X
bвҲ—=0
ВҜw(ПҖbвҲ—; x)
PB
bвҖІ=0 ВҜw(ПҖbвҖІ; x)
1
(PB
b=0 ВҜw(ПҖb; x) 1{V (ПҖbвҲ—; x) вүӨV (ПҖb; x)}
PB
b=0 ВҜw(ПҖb; x)
вүӨt
)
вүӨt.
Here, the first equality follows from (10), the third equality follows from (9), and the last inequality
is by definition. Finally, marginalizing over [X] and [ЛҶПҖ(0), . . . , ЛҶПҖ(B)] yields the desired result.
19


B.5
PROOF OF THEOREM 3.5
In this part, we prove the robustness of joint weighted conformal p-value with estimated density ratio.
For generality, we use a general index k instead of the total budget N, to indicate that {Xn+j}k
j=1
can be a subset of the original samples (as in Section 3.2). For conceptual simplicity, we present the
detailed proof for deterministic p-values (Appendix A.1), and the result for randomized p-values in
the main text naturally follows with the same ideas.
Proof of Theorem 3.5. Let Pcond(В·) denote the distribution conditional on all the labels {Yi}iвүҘ1 and
the event max1вүӨjвүӨk Yn+j = 0. Following the arguments in the proof of Theorem A.1, for any
fixed value x, we let pk(ПҖ; x) be the p-value with the correct weights w(В·) obtained when the data
is realized as (X1, . . . , Xn0, Xn+1, . . . , Xn+k) = (xПҖ(1), . . . , xПҖ(n0), xПҖ(n+1), . . . , xПҖ(n+k)), and
similarly we define ЛҶpk(ПҖ; x). Then we have ЛҶpk(V (ПҖ; x)) = ЛҶpk(ПҖ; x) where ЛҶpk(v) is defined in
Theorem 3.5, and by definition, we have
X
ПҖвҲҲО 
1{ЛҶpk(ПҖ; x) вүӨЛҶt} В·
ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; x)
P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x) = ЛҶpk(ЛҶv) вүӨЛҶt вүӨt.
In addition, by the definition of ЛҶt, we have ЛҶpk(ПҖ; x) вүӨЛҶt if and only if ЛҶpk(ПҖ; x) вүӨt for any ПҖ вҲҲО .
As a result, we have
Pcond ЛҶpk вүӨt
 [X = x]

=
X
ПҖвҲҲО 
1{ЛҶpk(ПҖ; x) вүӨt} В·
ВҜw(ПҖ; x)
P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)
=
X
ПҖвҲҲО 
1{ЛҶpk(ПҖ; x) вүӨЛҶt} В·
ВҜw(ПҖ; x)
P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)
вүӨЛҶt +
X
ПҖвҲҲО 
1{ЛҶpk(ПҖ; x) вүӨЛҶt}

ВҜw(ПҖ; x)
P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x) вҲ’
ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; x)
P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)

вүӨЛҶt +
X
ПҖвҲҲО 
1{V (ПҖ; x) вүҘЛҶv}

ВҜw(ПҖ; x)
P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x) вҲ’
ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; x)
P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)

вүӨt +
P
ПҖвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) вүҘЛҶv}
P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)
вҲ’
P
ПҖвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) вүҘЛҶv}
P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)
=: t + ЛҶвҲҶ.
Rearranging the terms, we have
ЛҶвҲҶ=
  P
ПҖвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) вүҘЛҶv}
  P
ПҖвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) < ЛҶv}

  P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)
  P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)

вҲ’
  P
ПҖвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) < ЛҶv}
  P
ПҖвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) вүҘЛҶv}

  P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)
  P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)

вүӨ
  P
ПҖвҲҲО [ ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; x) + ЛҶОҙвҲ’(ПҖ; x)] 1{V (ПҖ; x) вүҘЛҶv}
  P
ПҖвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) < ЛҶv}

  P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)
  P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)

вҲ’
  P
ПҖвҲҲО [ ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; x) вҲ’ЛҶОҙ+(ПҖ; x)] 1{V (ПҖ; x) < ЛҶv}
  P
ПҖвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) вүҘЛҶv}

  P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)
  P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)

вүӨ
  P
ПҖвҲҲО  ЛҶОҙвҲ’(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) вүҘЛҶv}
  P
ПҖвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) < ЛҶv}

  P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)
  P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)

+
  P
ПҖвҲҲО  ЛҶОҙ+(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) < ЛҶv}
  P
ПҖвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) вүҘЛҶv}

  P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)
  P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)

,
where we used the non-negativity of the weights and the definition of ЛҶОҙВұ(ПҖ; x). Further, noting that
ЛҶt =
P
ПҖвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜ
w(ПҖ;X) 1{ЛҶvвүӨV (ПҖ;X)}
P
ПҖвҲҲО  ЛҶВҜ
w(ПҖ;X)}
, we thus have
ЛҶвҲҶвүӨ(1 вҲ’ЛҶt) В·
  P
ПҖвҲҲО  ЛҶОҙвҲ’(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) вүҘЛҶv}

+ ЛҶt В·
  P
ПҖвҲҲО  ЛҶОҙ+(ПҖ; x) 1{V (ПҖ; x) < ЛҶv}

P
ПҖвҖІвҲҲО  ВҜw(ПҖвҖІ; x)
,
20


which completes our proof for the results of pk.
Finally, all the arguments still go through (following some arguments in the proof of Theorem 3.1)
for ЛҶpk after replacing О  by {ПҖ(b)}B
b=0 and additionally conditioning on the unordered set of
{ЛҶПҖ, ПҖ(1), . . . , ПҖ(B)}, where ЛҶПҖ is the permutation such that X = (xПҖ(1), . . . , xПҖ(n+k)). We omit
the details here for brevity.
C
EXPERIMENTAL SETTING DETAILS
C.1
CONSTRAINED MOLECULE OPTIMIZATION
For training the generator, we used the publicly available training code from the HGRAPH2GRAPH
(Jin et al., 2020) repository. We retained the default training/test splits and randomly held out 20% of
the training set for calibration. The test set contains 800 samples and is also sourced from the same
repository.
For the SELF-EDIT (Jiao et al., 2023) baseline, we used the same data splits and obtained the training
code from its official repository. Both models were trained with their default configurations, without
modification.
In all cases, we sampled up to 50 candidate molecules per input until a sufficient number of eligible
candidates were obtained. We defined ineligible candidates as those that were invalid (e.g., chemically
invalid), duplicates, or out-of-distribution (OOD) with respect to the training data. We retained only
those test samples for which at least N вҲҲ{5, 10} valid candidates could be generated.
The property oracles were sourced from RDKit for QED and from the Therapeutics Data Commons
library for DRD2.
Density Estimation and Scoring Function. We trained a molecular property predictor using
the Chemprop(Yang et al., 2019) library for both QED and DRD2 tasks.
The model used a
3-layer Message passing Neural Network with a final hidden dimension of 4 for feature extrac-
tion and was trained for 5 epochs using the default Chemprop trainer settings.
We used the
MulticomponentMessagePassing module without any modification.
For density estimation, we followed the CODRUG approach by extracting penultimate layer features
and fitting a Gaussian kernel density estimator (KDE) using the scipy library with a bandwidth of 1.
To filter OOD samples, we computed the 95th percentile density on the calibration set and removed
test-time generated molecules falling below this threshold. Additional samples were drawn until the
target number N of valid candidates was met.
For sequential p-value computation, we used 2000 Monte Carlo samples per test instance.
C.2
HYPERPARAMETER CHOICES AND DESIGN JUSTIFICATIONS
Density ratio model and feature selection. For density estimation, we follow the CODRUG proce-
dure, which has been shown to be robust for small-molecule density estimation under covariate shift.
We use the penultimate-layer representation of the property predictor, which yields a 4-dimensional
feature vector that is expressive yet low-dimensional enough to enable stable kernel density esti-
mation. For bandwidth selection, we adopt the same strategy as CODRUG: we perform a 5-fold
cross-validation over bandwidths {0.1, 1, 10}, compute the KDE likelihood on each held-out split,
and choose the bandwidth with the highest average likelihood. This avoids post-hoc tuning and
ensures that the KDE matches the calibration distribution as closely as possible.
Predictive model selection. Conformal validity does not depend on the complexity of the predictive
model, but the power of the method improves when better predictors and more discriminative score
functions are used. To avoid unnecessary tuning, we select models with strong reported performance
and publicly available implementations. For the CMO tasks (QED/DRD2), we train a standard
Chemprop MPNN. For the SBDD task, we use the default EGNN predictor from the TARGETDIFF
implementation. These choices are simple, stable, and sufficient for producing informative conformity
scores.
21


Choice of test statistic. Since the procedure operates on a set of generated molecules, the choice of
score statistic affects the power but not the validity. We use the maximum score across the set, which
is a natural heuristic in this context: if at least one strong candidate is present, the max-score captures
this evidence immediately, whereas statistics such as the mean or min dilute the signal with weaker
candidates. Empirically, we found the max statistic to produce higher power and lower rejection rates
than alternatives.
Number of permutations (B). We set B = 2000 Monte Carlo permutations, which we found
sufficient for stable performance while maintaining modest computational cost. Running the full
CONFHIT procedure with B = 2000 takes only 4 minutes for 800 samples (see Fig. 6). We also
evaluated B вҲҲ{500, 1000, 2000, 5000} and observed negligible variance in empirical coverage
across these values, confirming that the Monte Carlo approximation converges quickly. Runtime
scales linearly with B, and 2000 provides an effective balance between statistical stability and
efficiency.
Figure 6: Error rate as a function of the number of Monte Carlo permutations B for DRD2 with HGraph2Graph
(N = 5). The empirical error rate remains stable with minimal variance.
C.3
STRUCTURE-BASED DRUG DISCOVERY
For this task, we used a pre-trained generative model checkpoint obtained from the official TARGET-
DIFF (Guan et al., 2023) repository, along with their corresponding test set.
To estimate scores and extract features, we trained an EGNN-based model using their provided
codebase. We modified the final hidden layer to output an 8-dimensional embedding. For validation
data, we used protein-ligand complexes from the CrossDocked2020 (Francoeur et al., 2020a) dataset,
excluding all training and test set entries to avoid data leakage.
Density estimation was performed as above, using Gaussian KDE with a bandwidth of 1.
C.4
COMPUTE RESOURCES
All experiments were conducted on a single NVIDIA A100 GPU. The approximate runtime per
component is as follows:
вҖў Property predictor training (QED/DRD2): 20 minutes
вҖў HGRAPH2GRAPH generator training: 10 hours
вҖў SELF-EDIT training: 48 hours
вҖў Density estimator training for SBDD: 24 hours
вҖў Inference using TARGETDIFF: 30 minutes
вҖў CONFHIT procedure per test batch: 30 minutes (over 800 samples; вүҲ2.25 seconds/sample)
вҖ“ Candidate generation (CMO task): 14 minutes (вүҲ1.05 seconds/sample)
22


вҖ“ Predictor feature extraction: 6 minutes (вүҲ0.45 seconds/sample)
вҖ“ KDE computation: 3 minutes (вүҲ0.23 seconds/sample)
вҖ“ Running the conformal procedure: 4 minutes (вүҲ0.30 seconds/sample)
C.5
CODE AND DATA AVAILABILITY
We include with the code the following:
вҖў Model checkpoints.
вҖў Extracted features and CrossDocked identifiers used for calibration in SBDD.
вҖў Calibration and test splits.
вҖў Configuration files for reproducing results across datasets and models.
вҖў Installation instructions.
The
code
is
publicly
available
at
https://github.com/siddharthal/
CONFHIT-Conformal-Generative-Design-with-Oracle-Free-Guarantees
and is distributed under MIT license.
D
WORKING UNDER AN OVERALL BUDGET
In Section 4.6, we discussed the application of CONFHIT in providing practically useful heuristics
while constructing predicting sets when a fixed total budget B is available. The detailed algorithm is
provided in Algorithm 2.
Algorithm 2 Working under an overall budget
Input: Calibration data {Xi}n0
i=1 with Yi = 0, test batches {X(t)}T
t=1 of size N, conformity score V , weight
function ЛҶw, grid of confidence levels A вҠӮ(0, 1), total budget B вҲҲN+.
1: Initialize ЛҶPmax вҶҗ0, CвӢҶвҶҗвҲ…, ОұвӢҶвҶҗ0.
2: for each Оұ вҲҲA do
3:
For each test batch t = 1, . . . , T, run Algorithm 1 with level Оұ to obtain prunded prediction sets C(Оұ)
t
.
4:
Compute total cost C = PT
t=1 |C(Оұ)
t
|.
5:
Record number of empty sets E = |{t : C(Оұ)
t
= вҲ…}|.
6:
if C > B then
7:
Sort C(Оұ)
t
in descending order of size.
8:
Iteratively delete sets until total cost C вүӨB.
9:
Let D be the number of deleted sets.
10:
else
11:
Set D вҶҗ0.
12:
end if
13:
Estimate positives as ЛҶP(Оұ) = (1 вҲ’Оұ) вҲ’E вҲ’D.
14:
if ЛҶP(Оұ) > ЛҶPmax then
15:
Update ЛҶPmax вҶҗЛҶP(Оұ), CвӢҶвҶҗ{C(Оұ)
t
}, ОұвӢҶвҶҗОұ.
16:
end if
17: end for
Output: Best estimated positives ЛҶPmax with corresponding sets CвӢҶat significance level ОұвӢҶ.
E
ADDITIONAL EXPERIMENTS
E.1
DETAILED RESULTS
In this section, we provide error bars for the plots in Sections 4.3 and 4.4. The tables include Error
Rate, fraction certified, empty set fraction and mean set size depicted in 4.3 and 4.4 along with
standard deviation computed over 5 random runs, across different methods. Further, we report
metrics on the Constrained Molecule Optimization (CMO) task, using the Qualitative Estimate of
Drug-Likeness (QED) property with success (Y = 1) if QED(x) > 0.9, following Jin et al. (2020).
23


E.1.1
CERTIFICATION RESULTS
Table 1: DRD2_HGRAPH Certification Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Certified Fraction (%)
3
0.1
6.5 Вұ 1.1
22.6 Вұ 2.4
3
0.2
9.6 Вұ 1.4
33.2 Вұ 4.1
3
0.3
18.5 Вұ 1.9
39.8 Вұ 4.7
3
0.4
26.8 Вұ 2.1
47.6 Вұ 3.5
3
0.5
26.0 Вұ 2.0
57.5 Вұ 6.8
5
0.1
7.3 Вұ 2.0
43.0 Вұ 4.3
5
0.2
9.3 Вұ 1.2
53.0 Вұ 4.6
5
0.3
12.2 Вұ 3.2
68.8 Вұ 6.2
5
0.4
21.8 Вұ 2.6
65.1 Вұ 4.6
5
0.5
21.6 Вұ 2.2
70.2 Вұ 6.1
7
0.1
5.5 Вұ 0.6
51.5 Вұ 5.1
7
0.2
8.1 Вұ 1.2
60.6 Вұ 2.5
7
0.3
11.8 Вұ 3.1
66.2 Вұ 5.2
7
0.4
19.7 Вұ 3.2
70.4 Вұ 3.6
7
0.5
20.6 Вұ 2.2
74.5 Вұ 6.2
Table 2: DRD2_SELFEDIT Certification Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Certified Fraction (%)
3
0.1
7.1 Вұ 0.4
19.1 Вұ 2.1
3
0.2
8.7 Вұ 1.7
21.5 Вұ 3.1
3
0.3
19.8 Вұ 1.2
28.2 Вұ 3.2
3
0.4
19.8 Вұ 1.6
39.3 Вұ 4.1
3
0.5
28.3 Вұ 3.3
42.5 Вұ 5.2
5
0.1
7.0 Вұ 1.0
22.8 Вұ 3.1
5
0.2
7.4 Вұ 1.3
25.9 Вұ 2.5
5
0.3
16.4 Вұ 2.2
30.2 Вұ 4.1
5
0.4
17.4 Вұ 2.6
41.7 Вұ 4.6
5
0.5
26.9 Вұ 3.2
45.7 Вұ 5.1
7
0.1
6.3 Вұ 0.9
29.0 Вұ 2.2
7
0.2
9.8 Вұ 1.6
38.3 Вұ 3.1
7
0.3
16.8 Вұ 2.1
42.3 Вұ 4.7
7
0.4
17.1 Вұ 2.2
47.6 Вұ 4.9
7
0.5
26.4 Вұ 4.2
51.6 Вұ 5.6
24


Table 3: QED_HGRAPH Certification Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Certified Fraction (%)
3
0.1
7.8 Вұ 1.2
49.3 Вұ 2.0
3
0.2
13.4 Вұ 1.6
47.8 Вұ 1.8
3
0.3
16.3 Вұ 2.1
54.0 Вұ 1.0
3
0.4
19.4 Вұ 2.7
56.8 Вұ 1.0
3
0.5
21.8 Вұ 3.2
60.8 Вұ 3.4
7
0.1
7.9 Вұ 0.5
52.2 Вұ 3.2
7
0.2
14.6 Вұ 1.6
56.5 Вұ 2.0
7
0.3
17.9 Вұ 2.1
56.7 Вұ 2.2
7
0.4
20.3 Вұ 1.2
65.5 Вұ 3.1
7
0.5
22.5 Вұ 3.4
72.0 Вұ 2.7
Table 4: QED_SELFEDIT Certification Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Certified Fraction (%)
3
0.1
7.6 Вұ 1.2
42.6 Вұ 6.1
3
0.2
10.4 Вұ 0.6
54.6 Вұ 3.9
3
0.3
14.2 Вұ 1.3
52.2 Вұ 2.7
3
0.4
15.7 Вұ 2.1
57.0 Вұ 3.6
3
0.5
17.2 Вұ 3.7
62.7 Вұ 4.1
7
0.1
11.9 Вұ 1.4
52.2 Вұ 3.5
7
0.2
21.6 Вұ 2.1
62.3 Вұ 4.0
7
0.3
29.7 Вұ 2.5
61.2 Вұ 2.9
7
0.4
30.8 Вұ 1.2
77.9 Вұ 4.3
7
0.5
32.9 Вұ 3.2
78.4 Вұ 1.6
Table 5: TARGETDIFF Certification Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Certified Fraction (%)
5
0.1
8.4 Вұ 2.6
42.9 Вұ 2.5
5
0.2
10.8 Вұ 3.0
52.1 Вұ 2.9
5
0.3
11.4 Вұ 2.3
57.7 Вұ 3.8
5
0.4
14.9 Вұ 4.4
64.3 Вұ 3.6
5
0.5
17.1 Вұ 3.0
68.5 Вұ 3.4
10
0.1
5.3 Вұ 2.5
57.8 Вұ 4.3
10
0.2
8.2 Вұ 3.3
63.9 Вұ 3.6
10
0.3
9.3 Вұ 2.0
68.8 Вұ 2.6
10
0.4
11.5 Вұ 2.7
72.4 Вұ 4.0
10
0.5
12.8 Вұ 3.9
76.6 Вұ 3.7
15
0.1
10.1 Вұ 1.1
69.5 Вұ 3.3
15
0.2
7.6 Вұ 1.2
70.0 Вұ 4.6
15
0.3
8.7 Вұ 1.5
73.1 Вұ 5.1
15
0.4
9.8 Вұ 2.0
74.5 Вұ 2.5
15
0.5
12.0 Вұ 1.8
79.7 Вұ 2.3
25


Table 6: MOLCRAFT Certification Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Certified Fraction (%)
5
0.1
7.0 Вұ 1.2
40.1 Вұ 2.7
5
0.2
11.0 Вұ 1.8
47.9 Вұ 3.5
5
0.3
12.7 Вұ 1.0
55.5 Вұ 4.9
5
0.4
15.1 Вұ 1.2
63.1 Вұ 4.9
5
0.5
16.6 Вұ 1.2
68.1 Вұ 3.8
10
0.1
5.2 Вұ 1.6
58.3 Вұ 5.8
10
0.2
6.7 Вұ 1.1
64.2 Вұ 5.8
10
0.3
7.5 Вұ 1.4
67.6 Вұ 4.9
10
0.4
9.0 Вұ 1.6
71.1 Вұ 7.1
10
0.5
9.0 Вұ 2.9
73.5 Вұ 7.5
15
0.1
7.3 Вұ 1.0
55.4 Вұ 4.1
15
0.2
9.1 Вұ 2.0
59.8 Вұ 5.8
15
0.3
9.1 Вұ 3.6
68.7 Вұ 5.9
15
0.4
9.5 Вұ 3.0
69.1 Вұ 7.2
15
0.5
11.5 Вұ 4.9
76.2 Вұ 7.8
Table 7: DECOMPDIFF Certification Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Certified Fraction (%)
5
0.1
3.2 Вұ 2.2
56.6 Вұ 1.4
5
0.2
3.1 Вұ 1.9
63.5 Вұ 1.2
5
0.3
4.7 Вұ 2.0
69.0 Вұ 2.4
5
0.4
5.2 Вұ 2.4
73.4 Вұ 0.8
5
0.5
5.4 Вұ 2.6
77.0 Вұ 1.2
10
0.1
2.1 Вұ 1.6
74.4 Вұ 4.0
10
0.2
3.1 Вұ 2.5
76.4 Вұ 3.5
10
0.3
5.2 Вұ 3.1
79.6 Вұ 3.4
10
0.4
6.2 Вұ 2.8
82.7 Вұ 3.6
10
0.5
5.9 Вұ 3.0
82.7 Вұ 2.1
15
0.1
2.6 Вұ 3.2
83.2 Вұ 5.7
15
0.2
2.5 Вұ 3.2
83.9 Вұ 5.0
15
0.3
1.6 Вұ 2.7
85.8 Вұ 5.3
15
0.4
1.6 Вұ 2.8
85.1 Вұ 6.2
15
0.5
2.5 Вұ 3.1
87.1 Вұ 5.2
26


E.1.2
DESIGN RESULTS
DRD2_HGRAPH
Table 8: DRD2_HGRAPH Design Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Mean Set Size
Empty Set (%)
3
0.1
4.2 Вұ 0.3
1.9 Вұ 0.0
68.8 Вұ 1.3
3
0.2
6.6 Вұ 0.5
1.8 Вұ 0.0
46.1 Вұ 1.3
3
0.3
9.1 Вұ 0.6
1.8 Вұ 0.0
25.3 Вұ 1.8
3
0.4
11.0 Вұ 0.8
1.6 Вұ 0.0
15.0 Вұ 1.3
3
0.5
13.0 Вұ 0.8
1.5 Вұ 0.0
9.9 Вұ 0.8
5
0.1
5.4 Вұ 1.6
2.4 Вұ 0.7
47.9 Вұ 2.6
5
0.2
7.9 Вұ 2.5
2.1 Вұ 0.7
28.7 Вұ 2.8
5
0.3
10.4 Вұ 3.3
1.8 Вұ 0.6
15.8 Вұ 2.1
5
0.4
12.4 Вұ 4.0
1.6 Вұ 0.5
11.3 Вұ 1.9
5
0.5
13.9 Вұ 4.4
1.4 Вұ 0.5
8.8 Вұ 1.5
7
0.1
3.6 Вұ 0.8
3.1 Вұ 0.1
53.0 Вұ 1.2
7
0.2
6.3 Вұ 0.7
2.6 Вұ 0.1
30.0 Вұ 1.4
7
0.3
9.0 Вұ 1.0
2.1 Вұ 0.0
15.8 Вұ 0.7
7
0.4
11.2 Вұ 1.1
1.8 Вұ 0.0
9.2 Вұ 0.5
7
0.5
12.9 Вұ 1.2
1.7 Вұ 0.0
5.9 Вұ 0.6
DRD2_SELFEDIT
Table 9: DRD2_SELFEDIT Design Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Mean Set Size
Empty Set (%)
3
0.1
9.8 Вұ 1.3
2.0 Вұ 0.0
64.5 Вұ 0.5
3
0.2
14.6 Вұ 2.2
1.9 Вұ 0.1
42.3 Вұ 0.2
3
0.3
19.6 Вұ 3.2
1.7 Вұ 0.0
24.0 Вұ 0.9
3
0.4
22.5 Вұ 3.2
1.6 Вұ 0.0
12.3 Вұ 0.1
3
0.5
24.5 Вұ 4.0
1.5 Вұ 0.0
7.3 Вұ 0.6
5
0.1
9.5 Вұ 1.2
2.6 Вұ 0.1
53.0 Вұ 1.5
5
0.2
14.0 Вұ 2.4
2.3 Вұ 0.1
33.3 Вұ 2.6
5
0.3
20.7 Вұ 2.1
2.0 Вұ 0.0
14.9 Вұ 0.6
5
0.4
25.8 Вұ 2.6
1.7 Вұ 0.1
8.1 Вұ 1.1
5
0.5
28.8 Вұ 3.1
1.6 Вұ 0.0
4.2 Вұ 0.4
7
0.1
11.8 Вұ 1.3
3.1 Вұ 0.1
46.6 Вұ 0.8
7
0.2
19.5 Вұ 3.3
2.6 Вұ 0.0
22.9 Вұ 3.5
7
0.3
24.8 Вұ 6.3
2.1 Вұ 0.1
12.2 Вұ 1.9
7
0.4
28.6 Вұ 7.1
1.8 Вұ 0.1
7.4 Вұ 1.7
7
0.5
31.6 Вұ 6.3
1.7 Вұ 0.0
4.0 Вұ 0.6
QED_HGRAPH
27


Table 10: QED_HGRAPH Design Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Mean Set Size
Empty Set (%)
3
0.1
10.1 Вұ 0.7
1.2 Вұ 0.0
70.7 Вұ 1.9
3
0.2
17.0 Вұ 0.6
1.3 Вұ 0.0
45.4 Вұ 1.6
3
0.3
21.2 Вұ 1.4
1.3 Вұ 0.1
26.8 Вұ 0.9
3
0.4
25.2 Вұ 1.5
1.3 Вұ 0.0
13.2 Вұ 1.2
3
0.5
28.2 Вұ 1.7
1.2 Вұ 0.0
6.9 Вұ 0.6
5
0.1
12.2 Вұ 0.7
2.6 Вұ 0.0
27.2 Вұ 0.2
5
0.2
18.8 Вұ 1.1
2.3 Вұ 0.1
7.1 Вұ 0.2
5
0.3
24.4 Вұ 1.2
1.8 Вұ 0.0
0.0 Вұ 0.0
5
0.4
27.7 Вұ 1.3
1.6 Вұ 0.1
0.0 Вұ 0.0
5
0.5
29.9 Вұ 1.0
1.5 Вұ 0.1
0.0 Вұ 0.0
7
0.1
10.4 Вұ 1.2
2.5 Вұ 0.1
56.6 Вұ 0.8
7
0.2
17.5 Вұ 1.2
2.0 Вұ 0.0
31.7 Вұ 1.8
7
0.3
22.0 Вұ 1.4
1.7 Вұ 0.1
18.9 Вұ 1.6
7
0.4
26.1 Вұ 1.5
1.4 Вұ 0.0
9.4 Вұ 1.5
7
0.5
29.1 Вұ 1.6
1.3 Вұ 0.0
4.9 Вұ 1.1
QED_SELFEDIT
Table 11: QED_SELFEDIT Design Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Mean Set Size
Empty Set (%)
3
0.1
10.1 Вұ 0.4
1.2 Вұ 0.0
64.8 Вұ 1.8
3
0.2
14.4 Вұ 0.9
1.3 Вұ 0.1
45.2 Вұ 1.5
3
0.3
18.8 Вұ 1.4
1.3 Вұ 0.1
27.1 Вұ 1.8
3
0.4
21.5 Вұ 1.9
1.2 Вұ 0.1
13.3 Вұ 1.0
3
0.5
23.4 Вұ 1.9
1.2 Вұ 0.0
7.0 Вұ 1.0
5
0.1
11.9 Вұ 0.8
2.7 Вұ 0.1
26.0 Вұ 2.4
5
0.2
20.1 Вұ 1.2
2.3 Вұ 0.1
7.0 Вұ 0.7
5
0.3
25.8 Вұ 1.4
1.9 Вұ 0.1
0.0 Вұ 0.0
5
0.4
28.4 Вұ 1.5
1.6 Вұ 0.1
0.0 Вұ 0.0
5
0.5
29.9 Вұ 2.1
1.5 Вұ 0.2
0.0 Вұ 0.0
7
0.1
18.2 Вұ 2.7
2.1 Вұ 0.2
56.7 Вұ 1.5
7
0.2
26.9 Вұ 3.8
1.9 Вұ 0.2
34.7 Вұ 2.9
7
0.3
34.5 Вұ 3.0
1.6 Вұ 0.1
18.3 Вұ 2.2
7
0.4
39.2 Вұ 3.0
1.4 Вұ 0.1
10.2 Вұ 2.5
7
0.5
42.1 Вұ 2.5
1.3 Вұ 0.0
5.7 Вұ 1.6
TARGETDIFF
28


Table 12: TARGETDIFF Design Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Mean Set Size
Empty Set (%)
5
0.1
10.0 Вұ 1.5
2.5 Вұ 0.1
37.9 Вұ 2.6
5
0.2
17.4 Вұ 1.5
2.2 Вұ 0.1
21.4 Вұ 3.1
5
0.3
27.2 Вұ 3.5
2.0 Вұ 0.1
8.6 Вұ 0.0
5
0.4
34.2 Вұ 2.9
1.7 Вұ 0.1
2.1 Вұ 1.4
5
0.5
37.0 Вұ 1.2
1.6 Вұ 0.0
0.4 Вұ 0.7
10
0.1
9.4 Вұ 2.7
3.7 Вұ 0.1
21.9 Вұ 8.0
10
0.2
22.5 Вұ 3.5
2.9 Вұ 0.0
6.2 Вұ 3.5
10
0.3
29.4 Вұ 0.9
2.3 Вұ 0.0
1.2 Вұ 0.0
10
0.4
35.6 Вұ 0.9
1.8 Вұ 0.0
0.0 Вұ 0.0
10
0.5
37.5 Вұ 3.5
1.6 Вұ 0.1
0.0 Вұ 0.0
15
0.1
11.2 Вұ 1.8
4.7 Вұ 0.1
15.0 Вұ 5.3
15
0.2
21.9 Вұ 2.7
3.5 Вұ 0.0
3.8 Вұ 1.8
15
0.3
31.9 Вұ 0.9
2.4 Вұ 0.0
1.2 Вұ 1.8
15
0.4
36.9 Вұ 2.7
1.8 Вұ 0.0
0.6 Вұ 0.9
15
0.5
38.1 Вұ 2.7
1.6 Вұ 0.1
0.0 Вұ 0.0
MOLCRAFT
Table 13: MOLCRAFT Design Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Mean Set Size
Empty Set (%)
5
0.1
9.8 Вұ 1.2
2.6 Вұ 0.1
40.7 Вұ 1.9
5
0.2
18.7 Вұ 1.4
2.3 Вұ 0.2
20.7 Вұ 5.6
5
0.3
26.0 Вұ 3.1
2.0 Вұ 0.1
7.7 Вұ 0.7
5
0.4
29.3 Вұ 5.3
1.7 Вұ 0.0
2.4 Вұ 0.0
5
0.5
32.9 Вұ 4.2
1.6 Вұ 0.0
1.2 Вұ 1.2
10
0.1
9.9 Вұ 1.3
3.6 Вұ 0.3
22.2 Вұ 3.3
10
0.2
18.2 Вұ 2.0
3.0 Вұ 0.2
9.9 Вұ 2.1
10
0.3
25.1 Вұ 0.7
2.2 Вұ 0.1
2.9 Вұ 1.4
10
0.4
28.0 Вұ 1.4
1.8 Вұ 0.1
2.1 Вұ 0.7
10
0.5
29.6 Вұ 2.5
1.7 Вұ 0.1
0.4 Вұ 0.7
15
0.1
11.1 Вұ 0.0
4.3 Вұ 0.0
16.0 Вұ 0.0
15
0.2
19.8 Вұ 0.0
3.2 Вұ 0.0
1.2 Вұ 0.0
15
0.3
23.5 Вұ 0.0
2.2 Вұ 0.0
1.2 Вұ 0.0
15
0.4
27.2 Вұ 0.0
1.8 Вұ 0.0
1.2 Вұ 0.0
15
0.5
28.4 Вұ 0.0
1.6 Вұ 0.0
1.2 Вұ 0.0
DECOMPDIFF
29


Table 14: DECOMPDIFF Design Results
N
Оұ
Error Rate (%)
Mean Set Size
Empty Set (%)
5
0.1
9.6 Вұ 2.6
2.6 Вұ 0.3
25.0 Вұ 2.2
5
0.2
16.7 Вұ 4.7
2.3 Вұ 0.2
11.7 Вұ 0.7
5
0.3
24.2 Вұ 0.7
2.0 Вұ 0.0
2.5 Вұ 2.2
5
0.4
26.7 Вұ 0.7
1.7 Вұ 0.1
1.2 Вұ 0.0
5
0.5
28.8 Вұ 1.2
1.6 Вұ 0.1
0.8 Вұ 0.7
10
0.1
11.2 Вұ 0.5
3.4 Вұ 0.1
13.5 Вұ 0.9
10
0.2
19.2 Вұ 0.1
2.7 Вұ 0.0
2.6 Вұ 0.0
10
0.3
24.4 Вұ 3.6
2.1 Вұ 0.1
0.0 Вұ 0.0
10
0.4
26.3 Вұ 0.9
1.7 Вұ 0.1
0.0 Вұ 0.0
10
0.5
27.6 Вұ 0.9
1.6 Вұ 0.1
0.0 Вұ 0.0
15
0.1
9.6 Вұ 0.9
4.3 Вұ 0.4
8.3 Вұ 2.7
15
0.2
19.2 Вұ 3.6
2.9 Вұ 0.1
1.3 Вұ 1.8
15
0.3
23.7 Вұ 4.5
2.3 Вұ 0.1
0.0 Вұ 0.0
15
0.4
26.9 Вұ 3.6
1.8 Вұ 0.0
0.0 Вұ 0.0
15
0.5
27.6 Вұ 2.7
1.7 Вұ 0.1
0.0 Вұ 0.0
30


E.2
COMPARING DIFFERENT TEST STATISTICS
In this section, we include additional results for Section 4.5 comparing different test statistics. While
the power varies based on the choice of the test statistic, CONFHIT attains valid coverage across
statistics.
Figure 7: Comparison of score statistics on DRD2 (HGRAPH2GRAPH, N=3). Left: rejection (power) at
Оұ = 0.1, 0.3. Right: error vs. Оұ
Figure 8: Comparison of score statistics on DRD2 (HGRAPH2GRAPH, N=5). Left: rejection (power) at
Оұ = 0.1, 0.3. Right: error vs. Оұ
Figure 9: Comparison of score statistics on DRD2 (HGRAPH2GRAPH, N=7). Left: rejection (power) at
Оұ = 0.1, 0.3. Right: error vs. Оұ
31


Figure 10: Comparison of score statistics on SBDD (TARGETDIFF, N=5). Left: rejection (power) at Оұ = 0.1, 0.3.
Right: error vs. Оұ
Figure 11: Comparison of score statistics on SBDD (TARGETDIFF, N=10). Left: rejection (power) at Оұ =
0.1, 0.3. Right: error vs. Оұ
32


E.3
P-VALUES
In this section, we show the validity of conformal p-value plots described in section 4.5, across tasks
and datasets. In each panel, the distribution remains close to the uniform (dashed line; see also the
reported KL divergence from uniformity), confirming approximate validity of our p-values (albeit
slightly conservative).
Figure 12: Density of conformal nested p-values for QED using SELFEDIT at set sizes k = 3, 5, 7.
Figure 13: Density of conformal nested p-values for DRD2 using HGRAPH at set sizes k = 3, 5, 7.
Figure 14: Density of conformal nested p-values for SBDD using TARGETDIFF at set sizes k = 1, 5, 10.
F
EFFECT OF PREDICTOR QUALITY
In this section, we investigate how the accuracy of the predictor affects the performance of CONFHIT.
We consider three scenarios:
1. Normal predictor where the calibrated classifier outputs p = Pr(active | x).
2. Noisy predictor obtained by adding uniform Gaussian noise, giving
Лңp = p + N(0, 1)
2
.
3. Inverse predictor obtained by replacing p with 1 вҲ’p.
Figure 15 illustrates how CONFHIT behaves under these perturbation settings. Even when the
predictor is corrupted or inverted, the method maintains valid error control, with empirical error rates
remaining below the target line y = 100Оұ. This demonstrates that the statistical validity of CONFHIT
does not rely on predictor accuracy.
Predictor quality affects only the power. As the predictor becomes less informative, the conformal sets
become less efficient, which leads to a higher frequency of empty sets or larger sets depending on the
task. Despite this expected degradation, the method consistently preserves its coverage guarantees.
33


Figure 15: Effect of predictor quality on CONFHITвҖҷs error rate on the CMO task. In both DRD2 (top) and QED
(bottom) using the Hgraph model, noisy and inverse predictors exhibit reduced power but maintain valid error
control across all values of Оұ.
Figure 16: Results for heuristic baseline with predicted probabilities (while varying predictor quality), showing
rejection rates and error rates for QED with N = 5 using the Hgraph model. As predictor quality deteriorates,
the performance quickly drops with severe violation of the error control.
G
ADDITIONAL BASELINES
G.1
HEURISTIC BASELINE
We evaluate a simple confidence based heuristic. Given a predicted probability ЛҶp of success, the
heuristic selects the smallest n such that (1 вҲ’ЛҶp)n вүӨОұ. This provides a natural baseline that depends
only on classifier scores without any uncertainty calibration.
The results in Figures 16 and show that this heuristic does not reliably control the error rate. When
the predictor is accurate, the error rates sometimes follow the target line, but under noisy or inverted
predictors the error increases sharply and often surpasses the desired level. The degradation is visible
across both DRD2 and QED: the error curves drift upward as the predictor worsens, and the rejection
rates fluctuate significantly, indicating unstable behavior.
In contrast, ConfHit remains below the target line in all cases. The predictor quality affects only the
power, whereas the heuristic baseline loses error control as soon as the predictor becomes unreliable.
34


Figure 17: Conformal LM baseline for molecule optimization. Error rate (left) and emptyвҖ“set percentage (right)
versus Оұ for QED and DRD2 at N = 5 using the Hgraph model. The method breaks coverage and underperforms
CONFHIT despite relying on an oracle that is unavailable in real-world settings.
The empirical curves highlight that the heuristic transitions from reasonable to poor performance,
while ConfHit maintains stable guarantees across all predictor settings.
G.2
COMPARISON TO ORACLE BASED METHODS
We adapt an oracle-based CLM (Quach et al., 2023) baseline as depicted in Algorithm 3 to use
the sum of prediction scores as the total confidence of a candidate set, without performing any
density correction or filtering of lowвҖ“quality samples. As shown in Figure 17, this baseline fails to
maintain valid guarantees: the empirical error rate systematically exceeds the target level, and the
emptyвҖ“set percentages deviate sharply from expected behavior across all Оұ. Despite relying on an
idealized oracle, this approach also exhibits lower power than CONFHIT, whereas CONFHIT attains
both higher detection power and valid coverage due to its calibrated scoring rule and density-aware
correction. Finally, we emphasize that this baseline is not directly comparable to CONFHIT, since
it assumes access to a perfect oracle predictorвҖ”an unrealistic requirement in practical molecular
design workflows.
Algorithm 3 Conformal Sampling for Constrained Molecular Optimization
Input: Input molecule x; generator pОё(В· | x); scoring function F; calibrated threshold О»; sampling
budget kmax
Output: Candidate set CО» certified to contain at least one improved molecule
1: CО» вҶҗвҲ…{Initialize output set}
2: for k = 1 to kmax do
3:
Sample yk вҲјpОё(В· | x) {Generate candidate}
4:
CО» вҶҗCО» вҲӘ{yk} {Add to set}
5:
if F(x, CО») вүҘО» then
6:
break {Set certified}
7:
end if
8: end for
9: return CО»
H
ROBUSTNESS AND DIAGNOSTICS FOR DENSITY RATIO ESTIMATION
H.1
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
We study the effect of misspecifying the likelihood ratios by applying power transformations wОі
across a range of exponents Оі. Figure 18 shows how such transformations affect the KL divergence
of the p-values of the negative samples, together with the resulting error rate and rejection (empty set)
rate. In practice, such results can be used to judge whether the analysis is robust enough. Here, we
35


Figure 18: Effect of power transformations wОі of likelihood-ratio weights on QED and DRD2 using the
HGraph2Graph model at N = 5 at different Оұ. Across all transformations, CONFHIT maintains a graceful
degradation of error control with major changes in terms of the rejection rate.
additionally evaluate the error control performance under such perturbation to also show the robust
performance of CONFHIT.
The KL divergence here measures the deviation of the empirical p-value distribution from the
Uniform(0,1) distribution. Smaller values indicate that the transformed likelihood ratios still produce
p-values close to uniform, while larger values reflect increasing distortion away from the ideal uniform
shape. In both the datasets, we see that the KL divergence is only moderately affected under moderate
misspecification. Only on amplifying the weights (Оі > 3) causes the KL divergence to rise sharply in
the QED case we notice substantial deviation from uniformity.
The error rate consistently stays near the target level across all transformations for Оұ = 0.1 and
below the target level for Оұ = 0.3. Only the rejection rate is affected, with lower rejection occurring
when the KL divergence is small and higher rejection when the p-values deviate more strongly from
uniform. This shows that mild misspecification primarily adjusts the conservativeness of the method
without affecting its validity.
A similar pattern appears for DRD2 . Flattened weights reduce the KL divergence, while large values
of Оі inflate it. Error control remains stable throughout, whereas the rejection rate increases in the
high-KL regime corresponding to more severe distortions of the p-value distribution. Overall, these
results demonstrate that ConfHit is robust to moderate incorrect specification of the likelihood ratios.
H.2
SCAFFOLD SPLITTING ON CALIBRATION SET
To assess the robustness of the calibration procedure, we perform a scaffold split on the calibration
negatives. We select the top 30 scaffolds that also appear in the test set, producing a nontrivial
distribution shift that reflects realistic drug discovery scenarios where scaffold diversity plays an
important role. This setting provides a diagnostic test: if the calibration procedure is effective, the
resulting p-values on this shifted split should remain close to uniform.
36


(a) QED + Hgraph: Calibration significantly reduces
deviation of p-value distribution from uniformity.
(b) DRD2 + Hgraph: Calibrated p-values closely
match the uniform distribution.
Figure 19: P-value distributions on scaffold-split calibration negatives for QED (left) and DRD2 (right). In
both cases, calibration produces p-values that closely follow the uniform distribution, indicating that the density
correction remains reliable under scaffold-based distribution shift.
Figures 19a and 19b show the p-value distributions before and after applying the density ratio
correction. In both QED and DRD2, the uncalibrated p-values deviate substantially from the ideal
uniform distribution, as indicated by large KL divergences. After calibration, the p-values become
significantly closer to uniform, with much lower KL divergences and a visibly more homogeneous
density across the interval.
The close match between the calibrated p-values and the uniform reference suggests that the cali-
bration procedure successfully corrects for distributional differences tied to scaffold variation. This
indicates that the method is likely to remain well calibrated on the test set, even when the chemical
space differs from the training distribution. In practical applications, having partial knowledge of the
test setвҖҷs chemical space enables a simple sanity check: if the p-values on the corresponding scaffolds
appear close to uniform, one can be confident that the method will behave reliably on the actual test
compounds.
H.3
BALANCE CHECKS
Finally, To diagnose the effect of density correction, we compare the feature means of the calibration
set with the test set before and after reweighting as discussed in Section 3.3. Figures 20 and 21 show
the mean and standard deviation of each feature dimension, where post-calibration test features are
weighted by the likelihood ratio pcal(x)/ptest(x).
For QED (Figure 20), the pre-calibration test features differ substantially from the calibration
distribution, especially in the first dimension. After applying density correction, the weighted test
features align much more closely with the calibration means across all dimensions. The cosine
distance between the mean feature vectors decreases from 0.0623 to 0.0105, indicating a strong
improvement in distributional matching.
A similar trend appears for DRD2 (Figure 21), where large discrepancies in several dimensions are
substantially reduced after reweighting. The cosine distance drops from 0.0491 to 0.0075, confirming
that the corrected test distribution becomes much closer to the calibration distribution.
These balance checks provide a practical diagnostic: given an unlabeled test set, one can evaluate
whether density correction brings its feature distribution closer to the calibration set, indicating that
the calibration procedure is likely to remain valid.
37


Figure 20: Feature means for QED using the Hgraph model at N = 5. Density correction aligns the test features
more closely with the calibration distribution.
Figure 21: Feature means for DRD2 using the Hgraph model at N = 5. Density correction reduces the
discrepancy between calibration and test distributions.
38