PHYSICS-CONSTRAINED
FINE-TUNING
OF
FLOW-
MATCHING MODELS FOR GENERATION AND INVERSE
PROBLEMS
Jan Tauberschmidt1,2,
Sophie Fellenz2,
Sebastian J. Vollmer1,2,
Andrew B. Duncan3
1DSA, German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI)
2Department of Computer Science, University of Kaiserslautern–Landau (RPTU)
3Department of Mathematics, Imperial College London
{jan.tauberschmidt, sebastian.vollmer}@dfki.de,
fellenz@cs.uni-kl.de, a.duncan@imperial.ac.uk
ABSTRACT
We present a framework for fine-tuning flow-matching generative models to en-
force physical constraints and solve inverse problems in scientific systems. Start-
ing from a model trained on low-fidelity or observational data, we apply a dif-
ferentiable post-training procedure that minimizes weak-form residuals of gov-
erning partial differential equations (PDEs), promoting physical consistency and
adherence to boundary conditions without distorting the underlying learned dis-
tribution. To infer unknown physical inputs, such as source terms, material pa-
rameters, or boundary data, we augment the generative process with a learnable
latent parameter predictor and propose a joint optimization strategy. The result-
ing model produces physically valid field solutions alongside plausible estimates
of hidden parameters, effectively addressing ill-posed inverse problems in a data-
driven yet physics-aware manner. We validate our method on canonical PDE prob-
lems, demonstrating improved satisfaction of physical constraints and accurate
recovery of latent coefficients. Further, we confirm cross-domain utility through
fine-tuning of natural-image models. Our approach bridges generative modeling
and scientific inference, opening new avenues for simulation-augmented discov-
ery and data-efficient modeling of physical systems.
1
INTRODUCTION
Physical systems with rich spatio-temporal structure can be effectively represented by deep genera-
tive models, including diffusion and flow-matching methods (Kerrigan et al., 2024; Erichson et al.,
2025; Baldan et al., 2025; Price et al., 2023). Although their dynamics can be highly complex, these
systems are often governed by fundamental principles, such as conservation laws, symmetries, and
boundary conditions, that constrain the space of admissible solutions. Incorporating such physical
structure into generative modeling can improve both sample fidelity and out-of-distribution general-
ization.
In many scientific domains, including atmospheric and oceanographic modeling, seismic inversion,
and medical imaging, we often observe system states without access to the underlying physical
parameters that govern them. Crucially, PDE-based constraints are typically parameter-dependent,
with residuals that vary according to material properties, source terms, or other latent variables. Prior
work has largely focused on simple or global constraints—such as fixed boundaries or symmetries,
that apply uniformly across the data distribution. Handling parameter-dependent constraints naively
would require training over the joint distribution of solutions and parameters, which is often infea-
sible because parametric labels are missing, expensive to obtain, or high-dimensional. Addressing
this limitation is critical for scientific discovery. Many inverse problems in the natural sciences
and engineering require reasoning about unobserved parameters or exploring hypothetical scenarios
inaccessible to direct experimentation. A generative model that can enforce parameter-dependent
PDE constraints using only observational data would provide a powerful tool for data-efficient sim-
1


ulation, hypothesis testing, and the discovery of new physical phenomena, helping to bridge the gap
between raw observations and mechanistic understanding.
This work proposes a framework for fine-tuning flow-matching generative models to enforce
parameter-dependent PDE constraints without requiring joint parameter–solution training data. This
work aligns with a growing trend of simulation-augmented machine learning (Karniadakis et al.,
2021), where generative models accelerate scientific discovery by efficiently exploring physically
plausible solution spaces. Our approach reformulates fine-tuning as a stochastic optimal control
problem via Adjoint Matching (Domingo-Enrich et al., 2025), guided by weak-form PDE resid-
uals. By augmenting the model with a latent parameter evolution, we enable joint generation of
physically consistent solution–parameter pairs, addressing ill-posed inverse problems. We evaluate
our proposed fine-tuning framework on four representative PDE families spanning elliptic diffusion,
elasticity, wave propagation, and incompressible flow and show an application to natural images.
We demonstrate denoising and conditional generation capabilities, including robustness to noisy
data and the ability to infer latent parameters from sparse observations. Visual and quantitative re-
sults, including strong reductions in residuals across tasks and robustness to model misspecification,
highlight the flexibility of our method for integrating physical constraints into generative modeling.
To sum up, our contributions are as follows:
• POST-TRAINING ENFORCEMENT OF PHYSICAL CONSTRAINTS: We introduce a fine-
tuning strategy that tilts the generative distribution toward PDE-consistent samples using
weak-form residuals, improving physical validity while preserving diversity.
• ADJOINT-MATCHING FINE-TUNING WITH THEORETICAL GROUNDING: Leveraging the
adjoint-matching framework, we recast reward-based fine-tuning as a stochastic control
problem, extending flow-matching models to generate latent parameters alongside states,
enabling inverse problem inference without paired training data.
• BRIDGING GENERATIVE MODELING AND PHYSICS-INFORMED LEARNING: Our ap-
proach connects preference-aligned generation with physics-based inference, enabling
simulation-augmented models to generate solutions that respect complex physical laws.
An
implementation
of
our
method
is
available
at
https://github.com/
jantauberschmidt/PCFT.
2
RELATED WORK
Physics-Constrained Generative Models
Integrating physical constraints—such as boundary
conditions, symmetry invariances, and partial differential equation (PDE) constraints—into ma-
chine learning models improves both accuracy and out-of-distribution generalization. Classical ap-
proaches, such as Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs, Raissi et al. (2019)), directly regress
solutions that satisfy governing equations. While effective for forward or inverse problems, PINNs
do not capture distributions over solutions, making them unsuitable for generative tasks that require
sampling diverse plausible outcomes.
In the generative setting, the main challenge is ensuring that the physically constrained samples re-
tain the variability of the underlying generative model, avoiding pathological issues such as mode
collapse. Bastek et al. (2024) proposes a unified framework for introducing physical constraints into
Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPMs, Ho et al. (2020)) at pre-training time, by adding
a first-principles physics-residual loss to the diffusion training objective. This loss penalizes viola-
tions of governing PDEs (e.g. fluid dynamics equations) so that generated samples inherently satisfy
physical laws. The method was empirically shown to reduce residual errors for individual samples
significantly, while simultaneously acting as a regularizer against overfitting, thereby improving gen-
eralization. To evaluate the physics-residual loss, one needs to compute the expected PDE residual
of the final denoised sample conditioned on the current noisy state in the DDPM process. Accurately
estimating this expectation requires generating multiple reverse-diffusion trajectories from the same
noisy sample, which makes pre-training significantly more expensive. A common alternative is to
use Tweedie’s formula to approximate the conditional expectation in a single pass, but this shortcut
introduces bias, particularly in the final denoising steps.
2


ωft
t
ωbase
t
xbase
t
xft
t
ˆωbase
1
ˆωft
1
ˆxft
1
ˆxbase
1
ω
ω
Flow of State x
Flow of Parameter ω
vbase
t,x
vft
t,x
vft
t,ω
vbase
t,ω
vbase
t,x
vbase
t,ω
vreg
t,ω
b)
a)
c)
e)
d)
x0
ω0
denoising time
Figure 1: Visual depiction of proposed method. Starting at state xbase
t
or xft
t , we use the base vector
field vbase
t,x to predict the final sample [a)]. Through the inverse predictor φ, we recover the corre-
sponding predicted parameters ˆαbase
1
and ˆαft
1 [b)]. These estimates can be used as a target for evolving
αbase
t
[c)] or as a baseline for the fine-tuned evolution of αft
t [d)]. For purposes of regularization, we
further consider vreg
t,α, pointing from the current αft
t to the predicted final parameter of the base evo-
lution ˆαbase
1
[e)].
Zhang & Zou (2025) proposes enforcing constraints through a post-hoc distillation stage, where a
deterministic student model is trained from a vanilla diffusion model to generate samples in one-
step, regularized by a PDE residual loss. In Wang et al. (2025) the authors introduce PhyDA,
diffusion-based data assimilation framework that ensures reconstructions obey PDE-based dynam-
ics, specifically for atmospheric science. An autoencoder is used to encode sparse observations into
a structured latent prior for the diffusion model, which is trained with an additional physical residual
loss.
Inference- and Post-Training Constraint Enforcement
Various works have proposed ap-
proaches to enforce PDE constraints at inference time, often in combination with observational
constraints, drawing connections to conditional diffusion models (Dhariwal & Nichol, 2021; Ho &
Salimans, 2021). Huang et al. (2024) introduce guidance terms within the denoising update of a
score-based diffusion model to steer the denoising process towards solutions which are both consis-
tent with data and underlying PDEs. A related approach was considered by Xu et al. (2025), further
introducing an adaptive constraint to mitigate instabilities in early diffusion steps. In Christopher
et al. (2024), the authors recast the inference-time sampling of a diffusion process as a constrained
optimization problem, each diffusion step is projected to satisfy user-defined constraints or physical
principles. This allows strict enforcement of hard constraints (including convex and non-convex
constraints, as well as ODE-based physical laws) on the generated data. Lu & Xu (2024) consider
the setting where the base diffusion model is trained on cheap, low-fidelity simulations, leveraging
a similar approach to generate down-scaled samples via projection.
Flow-Matching Models for Simulation and Inverse Problems
Flow-matching (FM, Lipman
et al. (2023)) has emerged as a flexible generative modeling paradigm for complex physical systems
across science, including molecular systems (Hassan et al., 2024), weather (Price et al., 2023) and
geology (Zhang et al., 2025) . In the context of physics-constrained generative models Utkarsh
et al. (2025) introduces a zero-shot inference framework to enforce hard physical constraints in
pre-trained flow models, by repeatedly projecting the generative flow at sampling time. Similarly,
Cheng et al. (2024) proposed the ECI algorithm, to adapt a pre-trained flow-matching model so that
it exactly satisfies constraints without using analytical gradients. In each iteration of flow sampling,
ECI performs: an Extrapolation step (advancing along the learned flow), a Correction step (applying
a constraint-enforcement operation), and an Interpolation step (adjusting back towards the model’s
trajectory). While projection approaches are a compelling strategy for hard constraints, they can be
3


challenging particularly for local constraints such as boundary conditions, as direct enforcement can
introduce discontinuities. The above approach mitigates this by interleaving projections with flow
steps, however this relies on the flow’s ability to rapidly correct such non-physical artifacts.
Baldan et al. (2025) propose Physics-Based Flow Matching (PBFM), which embeds constraints
(PDE or symmetries) directly into the FM loss during training. The approach leverages temporal
unrolling to refine noise-free final state predictions and jointly minimizes generative and physics-
based losses without manual hyperparameter tuning of their tradeoff. To mitigate conflicts between
physical constraints and the data loss, they employ the ConFIG (Liu et al., 2024), which combines
the gradients of both losses in a way that ensures that gradient updates always minimize both losses
simultaneously.
Related to our approach are the works on generative models for Bayesian inverse problems (Stuart,
2010), where the goal is to infer distributions over latent PDE parameters given partial or noisy
observations. Conditional diffusion and flow-matching models can be used to generate samples from
conditional distributions and posterior distributions, supporting amortized inference and uncertainty
quantification (Song et al., 2021; Utkarsh et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2023). Conditioning is typically
achieved either through explicit parameter inputs or guidance mechanisms during sampling, as in
classifier-guided diffusion. While effective when large volumes of paired training data is available,
these approaches are less relevant to observational settings where parameters are unobserved. In
contrast, our approach connects the observed data to the latent parameters only during post-training,
requiring substantially smaller volumes of data.
3
METHOD
FM models are trained to learn and sample from a given distribution of data pdata. They approximate
this distribution by constructing a Markovian transformation from noise to data, such that the time
marginals of this transformation match those of a reference flow Xt = βtX1 + γtX0. Specifically
FM models learn a vector field vt(x) that transports noise to data, via the ODE dXt = vt(Xt) dt.
We can optionally inject a noise schedule σ(t) along the trajectory to define an equivalent SDE that
preserves the same time marginals (Maoutsa et al., 2020),
dXt =
 
vt(Xt) + σ(t)2
2ηt
 
vt(Xt) −
˙βt
βt
Xt
!!
dt + σ(t) dBt =: bt(Xt) dt + σ(t) dBt,
(1)
where we combine coefficients βt and γt into ηt = γt
  ˙βt
β γt −˙γt

.
Assuming we have access to a FM model which generates samples according to distribution p(x), we
seek to adjust this model so as to generate samples from the tilted distribution pr(x) ∝eλ r(x)p(x),
where r is a reward function and λ characterizes the degree of distribution shift induced by fine-
tuning. To achieve this, we leverage the adjoint-matching framework of Domingo-Enrich et al.
(2025). This work reformulates reward fine-tuning for flow-based generative models as a control
problem in which the base generative process given by vbase
t
is steered toward high-reward sam-
ples via modifying the learned vector field, which we denote as vft
t with corresponding drift term
bft
t . Our approach is conceptually related to reward- or preference-based fine-tuning of generative
models (Christiano et al., 2017; Sun et al., 2024), where a learned or computed reward steers gener-
ation toward desired properties. Here, the reward is defined via PDE residuals, encoding knowledge
about underlying dynamics and physical constraints to the solutions space as deviations to differ-
ential operators or boundary conditions. Notably, we assume that the distribution generated by the
base model p(x) only captures an observed quantity, but does not provide us with corresponding
parameters or coefficient fields often needed to evaluate the respective differential operator. In the
following, we will present a strategy of jointly recovering unknown parameters and fine-tuning the
generation process.
3.1
REWARD
A generative model can reproduce the visual characteristics of empirical data while ignoring the
physics that governs it, thereby rendering the samples unusable for downstream scientific tasks. To
bridge this gap we impose the known governing equations as soft constraints, expressed through
4


differential operators Lαx = 0 with parameters α. Throughout, a generated sample x is interpreted
as a discretization of a continuous field x(ξ) on a domain Ω. The strong PDE residual is defined as
Rstrong(x, α) =
Lαx
2
L2(Ω).
In practice, strong residuals involve high-order derivatives that make the optimization landscape
unstable. We therefore adopt weak-form residuals of the form ⟨Lαx, ψ⟩L2(Ω) for suitably chosen
test functions ψ ∈Ψ, which are numerically more stable under noisy or misspecified data. Repeated
applications of integration-by-parts can transfer derivatives from x to ψ. The set Ψ is composed of
compactly supported local polynomial kernels. For each evaluation we draw Ntest such functions;
their centers and length-scales are sampled at random. A mollifier enforces ψ|∂Ω= 0, justifying the
integration by parts. The resulting residual is
Rweak(x, α) =
1
Ntest
Ntest
X
i=1
⟨Lαx, ψ(i)⟩L2(Ω)
2.
These randomly sampled local test functions act as stochastic probes of PDE violations, providing
a low-variance, data-efficient learning signal. A more detailed description of the test functions used
can be found in Appendix D.3. Note that the residual might be augmented by adding soft constraints
for boundary conditions.
3.2
JOINT EVOLUTION
Fine-tuning is nontrivial in our setting because we must infer latent physical parameters jointly
with the generated solutions. On fully denoised samples, we can train an inverse predictor, i.e.,
φ(x1) = α1, such that the weak PDE residual is minimized. As a na¨ıve approach, this already
induces a joint distribution over (x1, α1) via the push-forward through φ. However, we advocate a
more principled formulation that evolves both x and α along vector fields, enabling joint sampling
of parameters and solutions, as well as a controlled regularization of fine-tuning through the Adjoint
Matching framework as outlined below. In the fine-tuning model, this can be achieved by directly
learning the vector field vft
t,α jointly with vft
t,x by augmenting the neural architecture. Since no
ground-truth flow of α for the base model is available, at each state (xt, αt) we define a surrogate
base flow using the inverse predictor φ. Specifically, we consider the one-step estimates
ˆx1 = xt + (1 −t) vbase
t
(xt),
ˆα1 = φ(ˆx1).
The direction from the current state αt to the predicted final parameter ˆα1 serves as a base vector
field which we use to evolve α, i.e. vbase
t, α(αt) = (ˆα1 −αt)/(1−t) inducing corresponding drift bbase
t,α .
This surrogate base flow, starting at a noise sample αbase
0
∼N(0, I), emulates a denoising process
of the recovered parameter. We denote by αbase the parameter aligned with the base trajectory
xbase. While the evolution of αbase does not influence the trajectory of xbase, the inferred vector
field can be used to effectively regularize the generation of the fine-tuned model. Similarly, to
regularize towards the parameter recovered under the base model, we introduce an additional field
vreg
t, α(αft
t ) = (ˆαbase
1
−αft
t )/(1 −t). This vector field points from the current parameter estimate of
the fine-tuned trajectory αft
t to the recovered parameter under the base model ˆαbase
1
. The field is used
to pull the fine-tuned dynamics towards final samples associated with parameters similar to those of
the base trajectory. The introduced vector fields are visualized in Fig. 1.
3.3
ADJOINT MATCHING
Considering an augmented state variable of the joint evolution ˜Xt = (XT
t , αT
t )T , we cast fine-tuning
as a stochastic optimal control problem:
min
˜u E
Z 1
0
1
2
˜ut( ˜Xt)

2
+ f( ˜Xt)

dt + g( ˜X1)

s.t.
d ˜Xt =

˜bbase
t
( ˜Xt) + σ(t) ˜ut( ˜Xt)

dt + σ(t) d ˜Bt
(2)
with control ˜ut( ˜Xt), running state cost f( ˜Xt), and terminal cost g( ˜X1). In this formulation, fine-
tuning amounts to a point-wise modification of the base drift through application of control ˜u, i.e.
˜bft
t ( ˜Xt) = ˜bbase
t
( ˜Xt) + σ(t) ˜ut( ˜Xt).
5


In Domingo-Enrich et al. (2025), Adjoint Matching is introduced as a technique with lower variance
and computational cost than standard adjoint methods. The method is based on a Lean Adjoint state,
which is initialized as
˜aT
1 = ˜λ∇˜x g( ˜X1) =
 λx∇x g(X1, α1), λα∇α g(X1, α1)

and evolves backward in time according to
d
dt˜at = −

∇˜x˜bbase
t
( ˜Xt)T ˜at + ∇˜xf( ˜Xt)T 
= −
JT
xx JT
αx
JT
xα JT
αα
 at,x
at,α

−
∇xf(Xt, αt)T
∇αf(Xt, αt)T

(3)
where the block-Jacobian is evaluated along the base drift for X and α, which means that
Jij = ∇j bbase
t,i (Xt, αt) for i, j ∈{x, α}. The hyperparameters λx and λα can be used to regu-
late the extent to which the fine-tuned distribution departs from the base distribution. The Adjoint
Matching objective can then be formulated as a consistency loss:
L(˜u; ˜X) = 1
2
Z 1
0
˜ut( ˜Xt) + σ(t) ˜at
2 dt
= 1
2
Z 1
0
ut,x(Xt, αt) + σ(t) at,x
2 +
ut,α(Xt, αt) + σ(t) at,α
2
dt.
(4)
It can be shown (Domingo-Enrich et al., 2025) that with f = 0, this objective is consistent with the
tilted target distribution for reward r = −g, if optimized with a memoryless noise schedule. This
schedule ensures sufficient mixing during generation such that the final sample X1 is independent of
X0. To stabilize fine-tuning we introduce a scaled variant of the memoryless noise schedule. Instead
of using the canonical choice σ2(t) = 2ηt identified by Domingo-Enrich et al. (2025), we adopt
σ2(t) = (1 −κ) 2ηt,
0 ≤κ < 1,
which retains the theoretical memoryless property (see Lemma 1 in Appendix D.4) while attenuat-
ing the magnitude of the noise variance. The introduction of the scaling factor 0 ≤κ < 1 constitutes
a simple but novel extension of the adjoint-matching framework. Whereas prior work highlighted
a unique schedule, our analysis shows that a family of scaled schedules remains consistent with the
memoryless condition. This additional degree of freedom acts as a numerical stabilisation knob,
mitigating blow-ups near t →0 without losing theoretical consistency. Further, it offers a control–
fidelity trade-off by regulating the amount of exploration. In practice, this flexibility allows practi-
tioners to adapt fine-tuning to the conditioning of the PDE residuals and the stability of the solver, a
feature not available in the original formulation.
Equation 2 is optimized by iteratively sampling trajectories with the fine-tuned model while follow-
ing a memoryless noise schedule, numerically computing the lean adjoint states by solving the ODE
in Equation 3, and taking a gradient descent step to minimize the loss in Equation 4. Note that gradi-
ents are only computed through the control ˜ut and not through the adjoint, reducing the optimization
target to a simple regression loss. We state the full training algorithm and implementation details in
Appendix D.5.
Adjoint Matching steers the generator toward the reward-tilted distribution, thereby reshaping the
entire output distribution rather than correcting individual trajectories. However, when fine-tuning
observational data or under system misspecification, we might be interested in retaining sample-
specific detail. Empirically we find that this can be effectively encoded by imposing similarity of
the inferred coefficients between base and fine-tuned model. Therefore, we add a running state cost
f(α) = λf
vft
t, α(α) −vreg
t, α(α)
2
which penalizes deviations of the fine-tuned α-drift from the direction pointing toward the base
estimate ˆαbase
1
. The hyper-parameter λf controls a smooth trade-off: λf = 0 recovers pure Adjoint
Matching, while larger λf progressively anchors the final parameters α1 obtained under the fine-
tuned model to their base-model counterparts, thus retaining trajectory-level detail.
4
EXPERIMENTS
We evaluate across five settings: four PDE systems (including boundary and system misspecifi-
cation, and observational noise) and a natural-image model. Unlike latent-space fine-tuning for
6


images, our PDE models operate directly in pixel space. High-variance noise during sampling can
drive off-manifold trajectories and perturb PDE residuals, motivating κ > 0 for these models. For
base Flow Matching backbones, we use U-FNO (Wen et al., 2022) for PDEs and the DiT-based la-
tent FM of Dao et al. (2023) for images. In all experiments we first sample from the base generator
and pre-train the inverse predictor φ to recover α by minimizing the (PDE) residual, then fine-
tune. Following Domingo-Enrich et al. (2025), fine-tuning is initialized from the base weights. We
augment capacity to condition vft
t,x on αt and add a separate head for vft
t,α. Fine-tuning uses a mem-
oryless noise schedule, while all reported results are generated without injected noise (σ(t) = 0).
Implementation details appear in App. D.2.
Comparisons, ablations, and metrics.
Our proposed method converts a single-variable flow into
a joint generative model (Sec. 3.2). We compare against: (i) a Base AM variant (vanilla Adjoint
Matching) where φ is frozen and used only to compute residuals, (ii) a Base AM+φ variant where
φ continues to train but the flow over α is not modeled jointly, and (iii) PBFM (Baldan et al., 2025),
augmented with our pre-trained φ to enable residual evaluation. Details on the comparison methods
can be found in App. E.2. All evaluations use 256 samples, generated from shared seeds across
methods. We report weak and strong residuals, Rweak and Rstrong, scaled by the mean residual of
a fixed reference set. The reference set Dref is a synthetic, clean dataset generated under the tar-
get PDE specification assumed during fine-tuning (no noise, modified BCs, lossless Helmholtz, or
unforced Stokes respectively). We also report Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD) based distribu-
tional similarities for states and parameters (MMDx, MMDα) computed against this dataset (details
in App. E.1). While the main text shows representative results, the complete set of experimental
evaluations is provided in App. F.
4.1
DARCY FLOW
Consider a square domain Ω= [0, 1]2 where a permeability α(ξ) and forcing f(ξ) induce a pressure
field x(ξ) governed by −∇· (α(ξ)∇x(ξ)) −f(ξ) = 0 with zero Dirichlet boundary conditions and
constant f. We draw α from a discretized Gaussian process and corrupt pressures with observation
noise before training the base FM. Dataset details are in App. B. Figure 2 compares three Darcy sam-
ples generated from the same noise seed x0: the base draw, fine-tuning with our regularization (here
λf = 1.0), and fine-tuning without regularization. The base pressure xbase is visibly contaminated by
high-frequency noise, and the inverse predictor φ correspondingly yields a scattered, artifact-ridden
permeability map αbase. With regularization enabled, fine-tuning attenuates noise in the pressure xft
while remaining close to αbase. Because αbase is itself fragmented, some artifacts persist. In contrast,
disabling regularization produces a fully denoised pressure and a markedly more coherent αft, but at
the expected expense of erasing sample-specific details present in the base realization.
xbase
αbase
xft
αft
xft
αft
Base
Fine‑tuned w/ regularization
Fine‑tuned w/o regularization
Figure 2: Darcy denoising (qualitative). Base vs. fine-tuned outputs for a fixed seed. Regularization
(λf = 1.0) denoises while staying close to the base sample. Removing it denoises more aggressively
at the cost of fidelity to the base realization. Additional non-curated samples in App. F.3.1. Color
maps throughout this work taken from Crameri et al. (2020).
We quantify the controllable trade-offs in Fig. 3. Panel (a) increases λx = λα at λf = 0, which
reduces the PDE residual while also reducing diversity in the inferred permeabilities (measured via
the complement of the mean pairwise SSIM; see App. E.1). Panel (b) fixes λx = λα = 20K and
varies λf, reporting MMDx between the fine-tuned samples and the base dataset. As expected,
stronger regularization preserves distributional fidelity (lower MMD) but yields higher residuals.
7


These ablations illustrate how practitioners can target residual reduction or distributional fidelity by
tuning (λx, λα, λf).
0.842
0.878
0.914
0.951
0.987
base
100
1k
10k
100k
1M
10M
0
1
2
3
4
weak (rel)
SSIM Diversity α
(a) λx and λα vs. residual/diversity
0.003
0.016
0.029
0.042
0.055
base
10
1
0.1
0.01
0
0
1
2
3
4
weak (rel)
MMDx
(b) Regularization λf vs. residual/MMD
Figure 3: Darcy ablations. (a) Increasing λx = λα with λf = 0 lowers the PDE residual but reduces
diversity in the inferred parameters (reported via SSIM-based diversity). (b) Sweeping λf trades
PDE residuals against fidelity to the base distribution (MMDx). Each point averages 256 samples
with shared noise seeds across settings.
Computationally, adaptation is lightweight: fine-tuning on noisy Darcy requires only 20 gradient
steps (hyperparameters in App. E.3) and completes in under 15 minutes on a single NVIDIA L40S,
after which sampling proceeds at base-model cost with no inference-time adjustments.
4.2
GUIDANCE ON SPARSE OBSERVATIONS
In many realistic settings dense observations of a state variable are available for pre-training a gener-
ative model, whereas only a few measurements of the latent parameter can be collected. To sample
from the posterior of parameter–state pairs that respect such sparse evidence we steer the genera-
tive process through guidance. Huang et al. (2024) demonstrate guided sampling towards sparse
observations from a model that was pre-trained on the joint parameter-state distribution. Our ap-
proach applies a similar guidance mechanism, however, to a model that was pre-trained on noisy
state observations alone. We state details on the guiding mechanism in E.4. Figure 4 shows that
the guided sampler adheres to sparse measurements while preserving realistic variability in the gen-
erated samples. Additional results for different amounts of conditioning observations are given in
Appendix F.3.5.
Figure 4: Three samples through guidance towards sparse observations (white markers in right
panel) of the permeability, showing a plausible conditional distribution.
4.3
LINEAR ELASTICITY
We consider plane–strain linear elasticity on Ω= [0, 1]2 with spatially varying Young’s modulus
α(ξ) and fixed Poisson ratio. Boundaries are Dirichlet: left/right clamped, top/bottom receive in-
ward sinusoidal normal displacements with zero tangential slip. During fine-tuning, we impose a
modified lower-boundary amplitude to induce controlled misspecification (see App. B) and include
an MSE boundary penalty in the weak residual. We report quantitative BC results as the MSE at the
boundary in Table 4.3 and a qualitative comparison is provided in App. F. Our method attains low
weak/strong residuals while keeping distributional shift modest; PBFM and FM+ECI drift distribu-
tionally or present high residuals (full details and non-curated samples in App. E.5, F.3.2).
8


Model
BC error (MSE) ↓
Rweak (rel) ↓
Rstrong (rel) ↓
MMDx ↓
MMDα ↓
FM
6.98 × 10−5 (± 0.53)
1.59 × 101 (± 0.37)
1.83 × 101 (± 0.66)
0.24
0.05
PBFM
2.32 × 10−5 (± 0.87)
6.32 × 100 (± 0.82)
4.22 × 100 (± 0.26)
0.92
0.54
FM+ECI
0.0
1.01 × 103 (± 0.13)
2.49 × 102 (± 0.32)
1.16
0.36
Ours
1.71 × 10−6 (± 0.50)
6.15 × 100 (± 0.77)
3.79 × 100 (± 0.87)
0.15
0.12
Table 1: Linear elasticity under BC misspecification. Quantitative boundary-condition (BC) error,
relative weak/strong residuals, and distributional metrics. Our method achieves low residuals with
limited distributional shift.
4.4
HELMHOLTZ
We consider time–harmonic wave propagation governed by the heterogeneous Helmholtz equation
−∆u −(1 −i tan δ) κ(x)2u = s on Ω= [0, 1]2 with Robin boundary conditions. Training data use
a small damping term (tan δ > 0) producing complex attenuated fields, while fine-tuning assumes
the idealized lossless model (tan δ = 0), inducing a controlled model mismatch.
Model
Criterion
Rweak (rel) ↓
Rstrong (rel) ↓
MMDx ↓
MMDα ↓
FM
–
1.5 × 101 (± 0.59)
2.55 × 101 (± 0.55)
0.18
0.03
PBFM
–
8.33 × 100 (± 3.04)
1.22 × 101 (± 0.33)
0.09
0.03
Base AM
Rweak
4.9 × 100 (± 1.85)
1.34 × 101 (± 0.32)
0.15
0.04
Base AM
MMDx
5.64 × 100 (± 2.09)
1.59 × 101 (± 0.33)
0.13
0.04
Base AM + φ
Rweak
4.99 × 100 (± 2.12)
1.16 × 101 (± 0.33)
0.13
0.05
Base AM + φ
MMDx
5.46 × 100 (± 1.94)
1.59 × 101 (± 0.33)
0.12
0.04
AM
Rweak
4.3 × 100 (± 1.29)
1.14 × 101 (± 0.29)
0.07
0.04
AM
MMDx
4.32 × 100 (± 1.43)
1.05 × 101 (± 0.30)
0.06
0.04
Table 2: Helmholtz: residuals and distribution (representative configs). Normalized weak/strong
residuals and MMD metrics. We include AM variants and a PBFM-style baseline.
Table 2 reports representative configurations for each method, selected as either the setting with the
lowest weak residual (Rweak) or the lowest MMDx. Full results are provided in App. F. The base
FM model shows the largest weak and strong residuals due to the damped–vs.–lossless mismatch.
PBFM substantially reduces both residuals relative to FM and, notably, also lowers MMDx and
preserves MMDα. The AM ablations (Base AM and Base AM+φ) further reduce the weak residuals
into the range 4.9× 100–5.6× 100, with strong residuals similar to those of PBFM, but they incur a
moderate increase in MMDx and MMDα compared to PBFM. Our full joint AM model achieves the
lowest residuals overall (weak residuals down to 4.3×100 and strong residuals near 1.05×101) while
simultaneously attaining the lowest MMDx among all methods and maintaining MMDα comparable
to the ablations. This indicates that the joint flow most effectively resolves the misspecification while
preserving distributional fidelity.
4.5
STOKES LID-DRIVEN CAVITY
We consider steady incompressible flow in the Stokes regime (linear, low–Reynolds-number proxy)
governed by −∇· (ν(x)∇u) + ∇p = f,
∇· u = 0 with no-slip walls and a smooth moving lid.
The dataset uses nonzero Kolmogorov forcing f ̸= 0, while fine-tuning assumes f ≡0, creating
a systematic model mismatch. Figure 5 reports the residual–distribution trade-offs for the Stokes
lid-driven cavity. We show only the Base AM variants and our joint model: the base FM model
exhibits extremely large residuals (3.05 × 102 ± 3.16) and is omitted for clarity, while PBFM fails
to converge to meaningful velocity–pressure fields (strong residuals 1.15 × 101 ± 0.05; see App. F).
In contrast to Darcy and Helmholtz, the attainable weak residuals of all remaining variants are
similar (Rweak ≈4–15). However, the joint model reaches substantially lower parameter-distribution
discrepancies, achieving MMDα ≈0.07–0.13, whereas both ablations remain around 0.22–0.28.
Overall, although residual levels are similar across AM variants, only the joint model can enter the
low–MMD regime—particularly for MMDα. This highlights the joint flow’s greater flexibility in
achieving high-fidelity parameter distributions.
9


0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
MMDx
10
20
30
40
weak (rel)
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
MMDα
10
20
30
40
weak (rel)
Base AM
Base AM + φ
AM
Figure 5: Stokes lid-driven cavity: residual–distribution trade-offs. Weak residuals Rweak versus (a)
MMDx and (b) MMDα. Across all variants, attainable residuals are comparable, but the joint model
(green) reaches much lower parameter-distribution discrepancies (MMDα ≈0.07–0.13) than the
Base AM (blue) and Base AM+φ (orange) ablations, which remain around 0.22–0.28.
4.6
NATURAL IMAGES: PARAMETRIC COLOR TRANSFORMATION
To demonstrate cross-domain utility, we apply our method to natural images by introducing a para-
metric recoloring pathway: analogous to the hidden PDE parameter, α here specifies a polynomial
color transform that operates outside the latent space, enabling exploration of image appearances not
well supported by the base distribution. We use a class-conditional Latent Flow Matching (LFM)
model (Dao et al., 2023) pre-trained on ImageNet-1k (Deng et al., 2009) and optimize PickScore
(Kirstain et al., 2023) with a globally fixed prompt. As a concrete example, we fine-tune on the class
macaw with the prompt “close-up Pop Art of a macaw parrot,” yielding the samples in Fig. 6. Joint
fine-tuning with recoloring produces markedly more vibrant palettes and, crucially, joint adjustments
(e.g., background textures that the recoloring exploits). Details about the recoloring parametrization
are given in Appendix E.7 and further non-curated samples are provided in Appendix F.3.6.
(a) Vanilla Adjoint Matching
(b) Joint model with parametric recoloring
Figure 6: Fine-tuning of LFM model on macaw class using prompt “close-up Pop Art of a macaw
parrot”, comparing vanilla Adjoint Matching with our joint approach.
5
CONCLUSION
We have introduced a framework for post-training fine-tuning of flow-matching generative models
to enforce physical constraints and jointly infer latent physical parameters informing the constraints.
Through a novel architecture, combined with the combination of weak-form PDE residuals with an
adjoint-matching scheme our method can produce samples that adhere to complex constraints with-
out significantly affecting the sample diversity. Experiments across PDE problems demonstrate the
potential of this method to reduce residuals and enable joint solution–parameter generation, support-
ing its promise for physics-aware generative modeling. Future steps include adaptive approaches to
optimizing trade-off between constraint enforcement and generative diversity, and extending the
framework to more complex and multi-physics systems, including coupled PDEs and stochastic or
chaotic dynamics. We would also explore how this methodology can be leveraged for uncertainty
quantification and propagation, and downstream tasks such as optimal sensor placement and scien-
tific discovery workflows.
10


REPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT
We report datasets, model backbones, training schedules, loss definitions, evaluation metrics, and
the key hyperparameters required to reproduce our results in the main text and appendix. Remaining
implementation choices are documented in the released configuration files. We fixed random seeds
where applicable and specify hardware/software versions.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This work was supported by funding from the German Federal Ministry for Education and Research
(Bundesministerium f¨ur Bildung und Forschung, BMBF) under grants 16IS24071A / 16IS24071B
and 01IW23005.
SF additionally acknowledges support by the DFG through FOR 5359 (ID
459419731), TRR 375 (ID 511263698), and SPP 2331 (441958259, 553345933, 466468799), and
by the Carl-Zeiss Foundation through the initiatives AI-Care and Process Engineering 4.0. We thank
the anonymous reviewers for their comments.
REFERENCES
Martin S. Alnaes, Anders Logg, Kristian B. Ølgaard, Marie E. Rognes, and Garth N. Wells. Unified
form language: A domain-specific language for weak formulations of partial differential equa-
tions. ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software, 40, 2014. doi: 10.1145/2566630.
Giacomo Baldan, Qiang Liu, Alberto Guardone, and Nils Thuerey. Flow matching meets pdes: A
unified framework for physics-constrained generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.08604, 2025.
Igor A. Baratta, Joseph P. Dean, Jørgen S. Dokken, Michal Habera, Jack S. Hale, Chris N. Richard-
son, Marie E. Rognes, Matthew W. Scroggs, Nathan Sime, and Garth N. Wells. DOLFINx: the
next generation FEniCS problem solving environment. preprint, 2023.
Jan-Hendrik Bastek, WaiChing Sun, and Dennis Kochmann. Physics-informed diffusion models. In
The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
Yoav Chai, Raja Giryes, and Lior Wolf. Supervised and unsupervised learning of parameterized
color enhancement. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Com-
puter Vision, pp. 992–1000, 2020.
Chaoran Cheng, Boran Han, Danielle C Maddix, Abdul Fatir Ansari, Andrew Stuart, Michael W
Mahoney, and Yuyang Wang.
Gradient-free generation for hard-constrained systems.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2412.01786, 2024.
Mehdi Cherti, Romain Beaumont, Ross Wightman, Mitchell Wortsman, Gabriel Ilharco, Cade Gor-
don, Christoph Schuhmann, Ludwig Schmidt, and Jenia Jitsev. Reproducible scaling laws for
contrastive language-image learning. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition, pp. 2818–2829, 2023.
Paul F Christiano, Jan Leike, Tom Brown, Miljan Martic, Shane Legg, and Dario Amodei. Deep
reinforcement learning from human preferences. Advances in neural information processing sys-
tems, 30, 2017.
Jacob K Christopher, Stephen Baek, and Nando Fioretto.
Constrained synthesis with projected
diffusion models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:89307–89333, 2024.
Fabio Crameri, Grace Shephard, and Philip Heron. The misuse of colour in science communication.
Nature Communications, 11, 2020. doi: 10.1038/s41467-020-19160-7.
Quan Dao, Hao Phung, Binh Nguyen, and Anh Tran. Flow matching in latent space. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.08698, 2023.
Jia Deng, Wei Dong, Richard Socher, Li-Jia Li, Kai Li, and Li Fei-Fei. Imagenet: A large-scale hi-
erarchical image database. In 2009 IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
pp. 248–255. Ieee, 2009.
11


Prafulla Dhariwal and Alexander Nichol. Diffusion models beat gans on image synthesis. Advances
in neural information processing systems, 34:8780–8794, 2021.
Carles Domingo-Enrich, Michal Drozdzal, Brian Karrer, and Ricky T. Q. Chen. Adjoint matching:
Fine-tuning flow and diffusion generative models with memoryless stochastic optimal control. In
International Conference on Representation Learning, 2025.
N Benjamin Erichson, Vinicius Mikuni, Dongwei Lyu, Yang Gao, Omri Azencot, Soon Hoe Lim,
and Michael W Mahoney. Flex: A backbone for diffusion-based modeling of spatio-temporal
physical systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.17351, 2025.
Damien Garreau, Wittawat Jitkrittum, and Motonobu Kanagawa.
Large sample analysis of the
median heuristic. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.07269, 2017.
Arthur Gretton, Karsten M Borgwardt, Malte J Rasch, Bernhard Sch¨olkopf, and Alexander Smola.
A kernel two-sample test. The journal of machine learning research, 13(1):723–773, 2012.
Majdi Hassan, Nikhil Shenoy, Jungyoon Lee, Hannes St¨ark, Stephan Thaler, and Dominique Beaini.
Et-flow: Equivariant flow-matching for molecular conformer generation. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 37:128798–128824, 2024.
Jonathan Ho and Tim Salimans. Classifier-free diffusion guidance. In NeurIPS 2021 Workshop on
Deep Generative Models and Downstream Applications, 2021.
Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffusion probabilistic models. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 33:6840–6851, 2020.
Jiahe Huang, Guandao Yang, Zichen Wang, and Jeong Joon Park. Diffusionpde: Generative pde-
solving under partial observation.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:
130291–130323, 2024.
George Em Karniadakis, Ioannis G Kevrekidis, Lu Lu, Paris Perdikaris, Sifan Wang, and Liu Yang.
Physics-informed machine learning. Nature Reviews Physics, 3(6):422–440, 2021.
Gavin Kerrigan, Giosue Migliorini, and Padhraic Smyth. Functional flow matching. In International
Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, pp. 3934–3942. PMLR, 2024.
Yuval Kirstain, Adam Polyak, Uriel Singer, Shahbuland Matiana, Joe Penna, and Omer Levy. Pick-
a-pic: An open dataset of user preferences for text-to-image generation. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 36:36652–36663, 2023.
Zongyi Li, Nikola Kovachki, Kamyar Azizzadenesheli, Burigede Liu, Kaushik Bhattacharya, An-
drew Stuart, and Anima Anandkumar. Fourier neural operator for parametric partial differential
equations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.08895, 2020.
Yaron Lipman, Ricky TQ Chen, Heli Ben-Hamu, Maximilian Nickel, and Matt Le. Flow matching
for generative modeling. In 11th International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR
2023, 2023.
Qiang Liu, Mengyu Chu, and Nils Thuerey. Config: Towards conflict-free training of physics in-
formed neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.11104, 2024.
Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter.
Decoupled weight decay regularization.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1711.05101, 2017.
Yulong Lu and Wuzhe Xu. Generative downscaling of pde solvers with physics-guided diffusion
models. Journal of scientific computing, 101(3):71, 2024.
Dimitra Maoutsa, Sebastian Reich, and Manfred Opper. Interacting particle solutions of fokker–
planck equations through gradient–log–density estimation. Entropy, 22(8):802, 2020.
Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory Chanan, Trevor
Killeen, Zeming Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, et al. Pytorch: An imperative style, high-
performance deep learning library. Advances in neural information processing systems, 32, 2019.
12


William Peebles and Saining Xie. Scalable diffusion models with transformers. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision, pp. 4195–4205, 2023.
Ethan Perez, Florian Strub, Harm De Vries, Vincent Dumoulin, and Aaron Courville. Film: Visual
reasoning with a general conditioning layer. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial
intelligence, volume 32, 2018.
Boris T Polyak and Anatoli B Juditsky. Acceleration of stochastic approximation by averaging.
SIAM journal on control and optimization, 30(4):838–855, 1992.
Ilan Price, Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, Ferran Alet, Tom R Andersson, Andrew El-Kadi, Do-
minic Masters, Timo Ewalds, Jacklynn Stott, Shakir Mohamed, Peter Battaglia, et al.
Gen-
cast:
Diffusion-based ensemble forecasting for medium-range weather.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.15796, 2023.
Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal,
Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learning transferable visual
models from natural language supervision. In International conference on machine learning, pp.
8748–8763. PmLR, 2021.
Maziar Raissi, Paris Perdikaris, and George E Karniadakis. Physics-informed neural networks: A
deep learning framework for solving forward and inverse problems involving nonlinear partial
differential equations. Journal of Computational physics, 378:686–707, 2019.
Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Bj¨orn Ommer. High-
resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF confer-
ence on computer vision and pattern recognition, pp. 10684–10695, 2022.
Olaf Ronneberger, Philipp Fischer, and Thomas Brox. U-net: Convolutional networks for biomedi-
cal image segmentation. In International Conference on Medical image computing and computer-
assisted intervention, pp. 234–241. Springer, 2015.
Christoph Schuhmann, Romain Beaumont, Richard Vencu, Cade Gordon, Ross Wightman, Mehdi
Cherti, Theo Coombes, Aarush Katta, Clayton Mullis, Mitchell Wortsman, et al. Laion-5b: An
open large-scale dataset for training next generation image-text models. Advances in neural in-
formation processing systems, 35:25278–25294, 2022.
Matthew W. Scroggs, Igor A. Baratta, Chris N. Richardson, and Garth N. Wells. Basix: a runtime
finite element basis evaluation library. Journal of Open Source Software, 7(73):3982, 2022a. doi:
10.21105/joss.03982.
Matthew W. Scroggs, Jørgen S. Dokken, Chris N. Richardson, and Garth N. Wells. Construction of
arbitrary order finite element degree-of-freedom maps on polygonal and polyhedral cell meshes.
ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software, 48(2):18:1–18:23, 2022b. doi: 10.1145/3524456.
Yang Song, Liyue Shen, Lei Xing, and Stefano Ermon. Solving inverse problems in medical imaging
with score-based generative models. In NeurIPS 2021 Workshop on Deep Learning and Inverse
Problems, 2021.
Andrew M Stuart. Inverse problems: a bayesian perspective. Acta numerica, 19:451–559, 2010.
Zhiqing Sun, Sheng Shen, Shengcao Cao, Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Yikang Shen, Chuang Gan,
Liang-Yan Gui, Yu-Xiong Wang, Yiming Yang, et al. Aligning large multimodal models with
factually augmented rlhf. In Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics,
2024.
Antti Tarvainen and Harri Valpola. Mean teachers are better role models: Weight-averaged con-
sistency targets improve semi-supervised deep learning results. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 30, 2017.
Utkarsh Utkarsh, Pengfei Cai, Alan Edelman, Rafael Gomez-Bombarelli, and Christopher Vincent
Rackauckas. Physics-constrained flow matching: Sampling generative models with hard con-
straints. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.04171, 2025.
13


Hao Wang, Jindong Han, Wei Fan, Weijia Zhang, and Hao Liu. Phyda: Physics-guided diffusion
models for data assimilation in atmospheric systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.12882, 2025.
Zhou Wang, Alan C Bovik, Hamid R Sheikh, and Eero P Simoncelli. Image quality assessment:
from error visibility to structural similarity. IEEE transactions on image processing, 13(4):600–
612, 2004.
Gege Wen, Zongyi Li, Kamyar Azizzadenesheli, Anima Anandkumar, and Sally M Benson. U-
fno—an enhanced fourier neural operator-based deep-learning model for multiphase flow. Ad-
vances in Water Resources, 163:104180, 2022.
Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony Moi,
Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Remi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, et al. Transformers: State-of-the-art
natural language processing. In Proceedings of the 2020 conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing: system demonstrations, pp. 38–45, 2020.
Ruichen Xu, Haochun Wang, Georgios Kementzidis, Chenhao Si, and Yuefan Deng. Apod: Adap-
tive pde-observation diffusion for physics-constrained sampling. In ICML 2025 Workshop on
Assessing World Models, 2025.
Hao Zhang, Yuanyuan Li, and Jianping Huang. Diffusionvel: Multi-information integrated velocity
inversion using generative diffusion model. In 86th EAGE Annual Conference & Exhibition,
volume 2025, pp. 1–5. European Association of Geoscientists & Engineers, 2025.
Lvmin Zhang, Anyi Rao, and Maneesh Agrawala.
Adding conditional control to text-to-image
diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision,
pp. 3836–3847, 2023.
Yi Zhang and Difan Zou. Physics-informed distillation of diffusion models for pde-constrained
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.22391, 2025.
A
USE OF LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS
We employed large language models to polish the manuscript (wording, grammar, and synonyms)
and to assist with implementation details, including plotting scripts and code rewriting/refactoring.
The research questions, problem formulation, algorithmic design and experimental methodology,
however, were conceived by the authors. All LLM-produced text and code were reviewed, adapted,
and verified by the authors prior to inclusion.
B
DATASET DETAILS
In this section we detail the datasets used throughout our study. Our guiding principle was to select
scenarios in which the underlying parameter fields contain sharp discontinuities, thereby inducing
rich, non-linear behavior in the associated state variables and making the inverse problem decidedly
nontrivial. Although the Darcy-flow benchmark follows the setup of Li et al. (2020), we regenerate
the data so that the sample count, grid resolution, and ground-truth parameters can be controlled
precisely. Complete scripts for producing all data will be released to facilitate transparency and
reproducibility.
B.1
DARCY FLOW DATASET
The dataset comprises 20,000 independent samples, each a pair (a, u) on the unit square Ω= [0, 1]2,
where a : Ω→R>0 is the permeability and u : Ω→R is the steady-state pressure solving
−∇·
 a(ξ) ∇u(ξ)

= f(ξ),
ξ = (ξ1, ξ2) ∈Ω,
with homogeneous Dirichlet boundary conditions u|∂Ω= 0 and constant forcing f ≡1.
14


Discretization.
We use a uniform 64 × 64 nodal grid with spacing ∆x = 1/(64 −1) and the stan-
dard five-point finite-difference scheme. Interface permeabilities are formed by two-point arithmetic
averaging. Dirichlet values are imposed strongly, yielding a sparse SPD linear system that is solved
with a direct sparse solver.
Permeability sampling.
We draw a zero-mean Gaussian random field araw via a cosine-basis
Karhunen–Lo`eve synthesis on Ωassociated with the Mat´ern-type covariance operator
C = (τ 2 −∆)−α,
α = 2, τ = 3,
i.e., using the DCT-II basis (Neumann eigenfunctions of −∆), setting the DC mode to zero to enforce
exact zero mean, scaling by the spectrum of C, and applying an orthonormal inverse DCT to obtain
a grid realization.
To model sharp contrasts, we threshold the Gaussian field into a piecewise-constant permeability,
a(ξ) =
(
12,
araw(ξ) ≥0,
3,
araw(ξ) < 0.
Observational noise.
In experiments with noisy observations, we corrupt the pressure with addi-
tive Gaussian noise
˜u = u + σ ε,
ε ∼N(0, I),
σ = 10−4.
B.2
LINEAR ELASTICITY DATASET
The dataset contains N = 10,000 independent samples on the unit square Ω= [0, 1]2. Each sample
is a pair (E, u) where E : Ω→R>0 denotes the spatially varying Young’s modulus and u : Ω→R2
is the plane–strain displacement field under fixed Poisson ratio ν = 0.30. The boundary loading is
deterministic and identical across samples: the left/right edges are clamped, and sinusoidal normal
displacements are prescribed on the top and bottom edges with zero tangential slip (amplitudes
Atop = Abot = 0.10). For each E, u solves the static linear elasticity equations (no body force)
−∇· σ(ξ) = 0,
σ = λ(E, ν) tr(ε) I + 2 µ(E, ν) ε,
ε =
1
2
 ∇u + ∇u⊤
,
ξ ∈Ω,
with Lam´e parameters λ(E, ν) =
ν E
(1+ν)(1−2ν) and µ(E, ν) =
E
2(1+ν), and Dirichlet boundary
conditions
u(ξ1=0, ξ2) = 0,
u(ξ1=1, ξ2) = 0
ux(ξ1, ξ2=0) = 0, uy(ξ1, ξ2=0) = −Abot sin(π ξ1)
ux(ξ1, ξ2=1) = 0, uy(ξ1, ξ2=1) = +Atop sin(π ξ1).
During fine-tuning, we set Abot = 0.075 to enforce adaptation of the solutions, simulating a mis-
specification between observed data and the assumed model.
Discretization.
We use a uniform 64 × 64 grid on Ωand standard second–order finite differences
in the small–strain regime. Dirichlet data are imposed strongly. The discrete equilibrium equations
are advanced by a stable explicit time–marching (damped gradient) scheme for the static problem
until the global residual norm falls below 10−6, or a cap of 2 × 104 iterations is reached.
Coefficient field sampling (piecewise-constant Voronoi medium).
Heterogeneous modulus
fields E are obtained from a Voronoi tessellation constructed by drawing a fixed number of sites
uniformly in Ω, assigning to each Voronoi cell a modulus sampled log-uniformly within [1.0, 10.0],
and rasterizing the resulting partition to the computational grid by nearest-site labeling. This pro-
duces piecewise-constant E with sharp jumps that emulate multi-phase media. To control interface
smoothness, a separable Gaussian blur with standard deviation σblur = 1.0 (in grid units) is applied
to the rasterized field.
15


B.3
HELMHOLTZ WAVE PROPAGATION DATASET
The dataset consists of N = 10,000 independent samples on the unit square Ω= [0, 1]2. Each
sample is a pair (c, u), where c : Ω→R>0 denotes the spatially varying sound speed and u : Ω→C
is the time–harmonic acoustic pressure. For a fixed angular frequency ω > 0, the field u solves the
damped Helmholtz equation
−∆u(ξ) −
 1 −i tan δ

κ(ξ)2 u(ξ) = s(ξ),
κ(ξ) =
ω
c(ξ),
ξ ∈Ω,
subject to homogeneous Robin boundary conditions
∂nu(ξ) + i γ u(ξ) = 0,
ξ ∈∂Ω,
with fixed admittance parameter γ > 0 and loss tangent tan δ ≥0.
Discretization.
We use a uniform 64 × 64 nodal grid on Ωwith spacing ∆x = 1/(64 −1). The
Laplacian −∆is discretized by the standard five-point finite-difference stencil in the interior and
homogeneous Neumann conditions in the normal direction on all sides, implemented via ghost-point
elimination. The Robin condition ∂nu + iγu = 0 is enforced by adding purely imaginary diagonal
contributions at boundary nodes to the stiffness matrix, consistent with the underlying Neumann-
type discretization. The heterogeneous reaction term −(1 −i tan δ)κ2u is assembled pointwise on
the grid. This yields a sparse complex-valued linear system, which is solved for each sample using
a direct sparse solver.
Sound-speed sampling.
The sound speed c is derived from a Gaussian random field constructed
in the same manner as for the Darcy dataset, but interpreted as a wave speed. We first draw a zero-
mean Gaussian field g on the grid using a cosine-basis Karhunen–Lo`eve synthesis associated with
the Mat´ern-type covariance operator
C = (τ 2 −∆)−α,
α = 4, τ = 6,
using the DCT-II basis on Ω, zeroing the DC mode, scaling by the spectrum of C, and applying the
inverse DCT to obtain g. To model sharp material contrasts, we map g to a two-level sound speed,
c(ξ) =
(
cmax,
g(ξ) ≥0,
cmin,
g(ξ) < 0,
with cmin = 0.8 and cmax = 1.2 in the reported experiments.
Source and damping.
The source term s is a fixed, smooth Gaussian bump centered in Ω,
s(ξ) = exp

−∥ξ−(0.5, 0.5)∥2
2
2σ2

,
σ = 0.05,
shared across all samples. We use a fixed angular frequency ω = 20 and Robin parameter γ = 0.03.
Data is generated with a small but nonzero loss tangent tan δ = 0.02, leading to complex-valued
damped solutions.
B.4
STOKES LID-DRIVEN CAVITY DATASET
The dataset consists of N = 10,000 independent samples on the unit square Ω= [0, 1]2. Each
sample is a pair (ν, u), where ν : Ω→R>0 denotes the spatially varying kinematic viscosity and
u : Ω→R2 is the steady incompressible velocity field with associated pressure p : Ω→R. For
each ν, (u, p) solve the variable-coefficient Stokes system
−∇·
 ν(ξ) ∇u(ξ)

+ ∇p(ξ) = f(ξ),
∇· u(ξ) = 0,
ξ ∈Ω,
with a smooth lid-driven cavity boundary condition on the top wall
u(ξ1, ξ2=1) =
 Ulid sin2(π ξ1), 0

,
and no-slip conditions on the remaining walls
u(ξ1, ξ2=0) = 0,
u(ξ1=0, ξ2) = 0,
u(ξ1=1, ξ2) = 0.
To excite richer flow structures, we add a Kolmogorov-type body force
f(ξ1, ξ2) = F0
 sin(π ξ2), 0

,
with fixed amplitude F0 > 0.
16


Discretization.
The Stokes system is discretized using FEniCS (Baratta et al., 2023; Scroggs et al.,
2022b;a; Alnaes et al., 2014) on a conforming triangular mesh obtained from a (64−1) × (64−1)
grid of squares, each split into two triangles. We employ Taylor–Hood elements (vector-valued P2
for u, scalar P1 for p) on the mixed space V × Q. The weak form reads
Z
Ω
ν ∇u : ∇v dx −
Z
Ω
p ∇· v dx −
Z
Ω
q ∇· u dx =
Z
Ω
f · v dx,
for all test functions (v, q) ∈V × Q, with the lid and no-slip boundary conditions imposed strongly.
For each sample, the resulting saddle-point system is solved with a direct solver, and the solution
(u, p) is sampled on a uniform 64 × 64 grid on Ω; the pressure is post-processed to have zero spatial
mean in order to fix the gauge.
Viscosity field sampling.
The viscosity ν is obtained from a Gaussian random field constructed
in the same manner as for the Darcy and Helmholtz datasets. We first draw a zero-mean Gaussian
field g on the grid using a cosine-basis Karhunen–Lo`eve synthesis associated with the Mat´ern-type
covariance operator
C = (τ 2 −∆)−α,
α = 4, τ = 6,
using the DCT-II basis on Ω, zeroing the DC mode, scaling by the spectrum of C, and applying the
inverse DCT to obtain g. To model sharp viscosity contrasts, we map g to a two-level field,
ν(ξ) =
(
νmax,
g(ξ) ≥0,
νmin,
g(ξ) < 0,
with νmin = 0.02 and νmax = 0.5 in the reported experiments.
Lid and body-force parameters.
In all samples we fix the lid velocity scale to Ulid = 1.0 and the
Kolmogorov forcing amplitude to F0 = 2.0.
C
PRE-TRAINING OF FLOW MATCHING MODELS
We adopt the vanilla Flow–Matching (FM) procedure of Lipman et al. (2023). Based on the refer-
ence flow
Xt = βtX1 + γtX0
with βt = t, and γt = 1 −t, we can define the conditional vector field as training targets for a
parametric model vθ(xt, t). Given an end-point x1 ∼pdata, the conditional vector field is available
as
vt(x|x1) =
1
1 −t(x1 −x).
This leads to the simplest form of Flow Matching objectives:
LOT
FM = E∥vθ(Xt, t) −(X1 −X0)∥2
where X0 ∼N(0, I), X1 ∼pdata and t ∼U[0, 1].
Network Backbone.
For PDE data, the mapping vθ is realised with a U-FNO (Wen et al., 2022),
which combines Fourier Neural Operator (FNO, Li et al. (2020)) with U–Net (Ronneberger et al.,
2015) layers. The FNO layers have an inductive bias towards low-frequency solutions and are
therefore particularly suited for modeling PDE data, while the U–Net layers help to refine outputs
and produce discontinuities.
Departing from the original design, we use the U–Net skip-connection structure in all layers. Also,
we employ a more powerful time-conditioning in the U–Net layers by using FiLM-style Adaptive
Group Normalization (AdaGN) time conditioning, i.e., predicting per-channel scale and shift from a
sinusoidal time embedding and applying them after GroupNorm in each residual block. This follows
the feature-wise linear modulation idea of Perez et al. (2018) and its diffusion U–Net instantiations
in Dhariwal & Nichol (2021); Rombach et al. (2022).
We prepend the physical input with fixed sinusoidal encodings for absolute spatial coordinates and
the normalized time stamp so the spectral backbone receives explicit space-time context. Padding
17


inside the U-FNO (for the spectral convolution layers) is reflective, which has empirically worked
better than replicative. Before training, data is standardised to zero mean and unit variance.
Table 3 compiles the hyperparameters of the U-FNO architecture used for the base FM models in
our experiments.
Table 3: U–FNO (2D) backbone hyperparameters used in our experiments.
Hyperparameter
Value
Description
Number of layers
4
Count of spectral and U–Net operator blocks.
Padding mode
reflect
Boundary padding for convolutions/lifts.
Input channels
1 - 3
Channels of input field x.
Output channels
1 - 3
Channels of output field.
Time embedding dim
32
Dimensionality of time conditioning.
Spatial embedding dim
32
Dimensionality of coordinate embedding.
Lifting width
256
Channels in input lifting/projection.
Fourier modes (kx, ky)
[32, 32]
Retained spectral modes per axis.
Spectral block width
32
Channel width within FNO layers.
U–Net base widths
32
Stage-wise channel widths.
Embedding width (U–Net)
64
Channels for conditioning embeddings.
Attention stages
[]
Stages with self-attention (empty ⇒none).
Attention heads
[]
Multi-head count if attention is enabled.
Total number of parameters
≈19M
On natural image data, we use a pre-trained Latent Flow Matching Model (Dao et al., 2023) based
on a DiT (Peebles & Xie, 2023) backbone.
Optimization.
We train the FM backbone with AdamW (Loshchilov & Hutter, 2017), using a
linear warmup of the learning rate from 0 to the base value over the first pwu fraction of training steps,
followed by a constant learning rate thereafter. For evaluation stability, we maintain an exponential
moving average (EMA) of the network parameters θEMA ←β θEMA + (1 −β) θ, a practice rooted
in Polyak averaging (Polyak & Juditsky, 1992) and widely adopted in modern deep models (e.g.,
Tarvainen & Valpola, 2017).
Table 4: Flow Matching (FM) training hyperparameters and schedule.
Hyperparameter
Description
Batch size
128
Minibatch size per step.
Base learning rate
1e-4
AdamW step size.
Warmup fraction pwu
0.01
Fraction of total steps used for linear LR warmup.
Epochs
300
Full passes over the dataset.
Optimizer
AdamW
Applied to FM backbone parameters.
Weight decay
0.01
AdamW L2/decoupled decay coefficient.
EMA decay
0.9998
Exponential moving average of weights for evaluation.
Schedule after warmup
constant
LR held constant after warmup.
The FM training configuration is summarized in Table 4. For the Darcy dataset (20k samples),
training takes around 12 hours on a single NVIDIA RTXA6000 GPU. For the smaller datasets of
10k samples but with more channels (Elasticity, Helmholtz, Stokes), training takes around 7 hours
using the same configuration.
18


D
METHOD: IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
In this section, we provide further details on the implementation of our fine-tuning method. This
includes neural network architectures, the specific design of test functions for the computation of
the weak residuals, numerical heuristics, and finally the full training algorithm for fine-tuning.
All relevant code is implemented using Python 3.12.3, specifically, neural architectures are imple-
mented in PyTorch Paszke et al. (2019) version 2.7.
D.1
INVERSE PREDICTOR
We parametrise the inverse map φ with a two-layer U-FNO, mirroring the spectral–spatial bias of the
forward backbone. However, we increase the capacity of the U–Net components and use attention
at the two lowest resolutions (stage indices 2 and 3). Since the inverse predictor only operates at
t = 1, we drop the temporal but keep the spatial conditioning. Exact parameters are stated in Table
5.
Table 5: U-FNO Inverse Predictor.
Hyperparameter
Value
Number of layers
2
Padding mode
reflect
Input channels
1 - 3
Time embedding dimension
0
Spatial embedding dimension
32
Output channels
1
Lifting width
256
Fourier modes (kx, ky)
[32, 32]
Spectral block width
32
U–Net base widths
[64, 64, 96, 128]
U–Net embedding width
64
Attention stages
[2, 3]
Attention heads
4
D.2
ARCHITECTURE MODIFICATIONS
Fine-tuning augments the base U–FNO map x 7→vbase
t,x (x, t) to a joint, α-conditioned vector field
(vft
t,x, vft
t,α) = vft(x, α, t),
implemented as residual corrections around the U–FNO core. Given the padded input xpad (with
time/space embeddings) and conditioning fields α and vbase
t,α , the base feature stack x∗is produced
by the original spectral+skip+U–Net blocks. A first correction head (a U–Net) takes [x∗, vbase
t,x , α]
and outputs an additive refinement, yielding
vft
t,x = vbase
t,x
+ Ux
 x∗, vbase
t,x , α, t

.
After unpadding, a pixel-wise correction (lightweight channel-wise MLP) further adjusts vft
t,x using
local features and 2D positional channels,
vft
t,x ←vft
t,x + Mx
 pos(x∗, t), vft
t,x

,
which provides extra capacity for rapid adaptation without altering the global operator. For the
parameter dynamics, we adopt a strictly residual strategy that conditions on both α and the baseline
field:
vft
t,α = vbase
t,α + Uα
 xpad, α, vbase
t,α , t

,
where Uα is a second U–Net. All correction heads are zero-initialized at their final projection layers,
so that at the start of fine-tuning vft ≡(vbase
t,x , vbase
t,α ) and departures are learned smoothly. Table 6
lists the parameters of the correction U–Nets.
19


Table 6: Parameterization of the fine-tuning U–Net heads Ux and Uα.
Hyperparameter
Value
U–Net base widths
[64, 64, 96, 128]
Embedding width (time/aux)
64
Hidden lift (internal width)
256
Self-attention stages
[2, 3]
Attention heads
4
Overall, the modifications to the base architecture add around 6M parameters to the model, resulting
in a total ≈25M parameters.
D.3
WEAK RESIDUALS AND TEST FUNCTIONS
Darcy
Flow.
A
pressure
field
u
that
solves
our
Darcy
flow
equations
fulfills
−∇·
 a∇u

−f = Lau = 0 on Ω⊂Rd with homogeneous Dirichlet data u|∂Ω= 0.
For
any ψ ∈C1
0(Ω) we compute the L2 inner product by multiplying with ψ and integrating:
⟨Lau, ψ⟩L2(Ω) =
Z
Ω
 −∇·
 a∇u

−f

ψ dξ
One application of the divergence theorem yields
⟨Lau, ψ⟩L2(Ω) = −
Z
∂Ω
(a∇u · n) ψ dξ
+
Z
Ω
(a ∇u · ∇ψ) −f ψ dξ
=
Z
Ω
(a ∇u · ∇ψ) −f ψ dξ,
where the boundary term vanishes because of ψ|∂Ω= 0. This expression only contains a first-order
derivative of u and can be used to compute in the computation of the weak residual. To obtain a
dimensionless, coefficient-scaled quantity comparable across locations, we normalize by the local
mean permeability over the support of ψ,
aψ :=
1
| supp ψ|
Z
supp ψ
a(ξ) dξ,
eR[ψ] := R[ψ]
aψ
.
In practice, supp ψ is the compact patch where ψ (or its mollified variant) is nonzero, so that aψ
captures the local coefficient scale used to normalize the residual.
Linear Elasticity.
For any compactly supported vector test ψ ∈C1
0(Ω; R2), the weak residual is
R[ψ] := ⟨LEu, ψ⟩L2(Ω) =
Z
Ω
 −∇· σ(u; E, ν)

·ψ dξ.
A single integration by parts yields
R[ψ] = −
Z
∂Ω
 σn

·ψ dS +
Z
Ω
σ : ∇ψ dξ =
Z
Ω
σ : ∇ψ dξ,
since ψ|∂Ω= 0. Here “σ : ∇ψ” is the Frobenius product and we denote the stress components by
σxx, σxy(= σyx), σyy. To reuse the same scalar test generator for both momentum equations, we
restrict to tests that share a single scalar profile in both components. Concretely, we take
ψ(x) = (ψ, 0),
ψ(y) = (0, ψ),
ψ ∈C1
0(Ω).
20


With this restriction, residuals can be computed component-wise
⟨LEu, ψ(x)⟩=
Z
Ω
 σxx ∂ξ1ψ + σxy ∂ξ2ψ

dξ,
⟨LEu, ψ(y)⟩=
Z
Ω
 σxy ∂ξ1ψ + σyy ∂ξ2ψ

dξ.
To obtain a dimensionless, coefficient-scaled quantity, we normalize by the local mean modulus over
the support of ψ,
Eψ :=
1
| supp ψ|
Z
supp ψ
E(ξ) dξ,
eR(x)[ψ] := ⟨LEu, ψ(x)⟩
Eψ
,
eR(y)[ψ] := ⟨LEu, ψ(y)⟩
Eψ
.
For a family of tests {ψk}N
k=1, the scalar residual used in experiments is the ℓ2 aggregation over
components followed by averaging over tests. Therefore, the weak residual for the elasticity experi-
ment is
Rweak := 1
N
N
X
k=1
  eR(x)[ψk]
2 +
  eR(y)[ψk]
2
.
Helmholtz.
For the Helmholtz experiments we consider complex-valued time–harmonic pressures
u : Ω→C satisfying
Lcu := −∆u(ξ) −
 1 −i tan δ

κ(ξ)2u(ξ) −s(ξ) = 0,
κ(ξ) =
ω
c(ξ) ,
where c(ξ) is the sound speed, ω > 0 the angular frequency, tan δ ≥0 the loss tangent, and s(ξ)
a fixed source. Writing u = uR + iuI with real and imaginary parts uR, uI : Ω→R, we split the
operator into its real and imaginary components
Lcu =
 L(R)
c
uR + C(R)uI −s

+ i
 L(I)
c uI + C(I)uR

,
with
L(R)
c
uR := −∆uR −κ2uR,
L(I)
c uI := −∆uI −κ2uI,
C(R)uI := αIuI,
C(I)uR := −αIuR,
where αR := κ2 and αI := −tan δ κ2. For any scalar test function ψ ∈C1
0(Ω), we define real and
imaginary weak residuals as
R(R)[ψ] :=

L(R)
c
uR + C(R)uI −s, ψ

L2(Ω),
R(I)[ψ] :=

L(I)
c uI + C(I)uR, ψ

L2(Ω).
A single integration by parts in the Laplacian terms gives
R(R)[ψ] = −
Z
∂Ω
(∇uR · n) ψ dS +
Z
Ω
 ∇uR · ∇ψ −αRuRψ + αIuIψ −s ψ

dξ,
R(I)[ψ] = −
Z
∂Ω
(∇uI · n) ψ dS +
Z
Ω
 ∇uI · ∇ψ −αRuIψ −αIuRψ

dξ.
Since ψ is compactly supported in the interior, the boundary contributions vanish and we use only
the volume terms in the residual. As in the elasticity case, we reuse the same scalar profile ψ for
both channels (real and imaginary parts) and evaluate R(R)[ψ] and R(I)[ψ] on identical compact
patches to increase computational efficiency.
To obtain a dimensionless quantity that is comparable across locations and coefficient scales, we
normalize by a local Helmholtz energy associated with the bilinear form
Eψ(u) :=
Z
supp ψ

|∇uR|2 + |∇uI|2 + κ(ξ)2 uR(ξ)2 + uI(ξ)2
dξ,
which combines gradient and reaction contributions of both channels. The normalized residuals are
eR(R)[ψ] := R(R)[ψ]
p
Eψ(u)
,
eR(I)[ψ] := R(I)[ψ]
p
Eψ(u)
.
Given a family of scalar tests {ψk}N
k=1, the scalar weak residual used in experiments is obtained by
aggregating real and imaginary components and averaging over tests,
Rweak := 1
N
N
X
k=1
  eR(R)[ψk]
2 +
  eR(I)[ψk]
2
.
21


Stokes lid-driven cavity.
For the Stokes experiments, each sample contains a velocity–pressure
pair (u, p) solving the variable–viscosity incompressible Stokes system
Lν(u, p) :=
 −∇· (ν∇u) + ∇p, ∇· u

= (0, 0)
in Ω,
with ν : Ω→R>0 denoting the viscosity field. Writing u = (ux, uy), the operator decomposes into
L(x)
ν (u, p) = −∇· (ν∇ux) + ∂ξ1p,
L(y)
ν (u, p) = −∇· (ν∇uy) + ∂ξ2p,
L(div)
ν
(u, p) = ∂ξ1ux + ∂ξ2uy.
For any scalar test function ψ ∈C1
0(Ω), we form momentum and incompressibility residuals by
testing each of these three equations with the same scalar profile,
R(x)[ψ] :=

L(x)
ν (u, p), ψ

L2(Ω),
R(y)[ψ] :=

L(y)
ν (u, p), ψ

L2(Ω),
R(div)[ψ] :=

L(div)
ν
(u, p), ψ

L2(Ω).
As in the Darcy and elasticity settings, one integration by parts isolates only first derivatives of
the solution inside the volume integral. Since ψ has compact support inside Ω, all boundary terms
vanish and we obtain the local weak forms
R(x)[ψ] =
Z
Ω

ν ∇ux · ∇ψ + (∂ξ1p) ψ

dξ,
R(y)[ψ] =
Z
Ω

ν ∇uy · ∇ψ + (∂ξ2p) ψ

dξ,
R(div)[ψ] =
Z
Ω
 ∂ξ1ux + ∂ξ2uy

ψ dξ.
To obtain a dimensionless, coefficient–scaled residual comparable across locations, we normalize
by the local viscosity–weighted kinetic energy over the support of ψ,
Eψ(u) :=
Z
supp ψ

ν(ξ) ∥∇u(ξ)∥2
F + ∥u(ξ)∥2
2

dξ,
where ∥∇u∥2
F = |∂ξ1ux|2 + |∂ξ2ux|2 + |∂ξ1uy|2 + |∂ξ2uy|2. The normalized weak residuals are
eR(x)[ψ] := R(x)[ψ]
p
Eψ(u)
,
eR(y)[ψ] := R(y)[ψ]
p
Eψ(u)
,
eR(div)[ψ] := R(div)[ψ]
p
Eψ(u)
.
Finally, for a collection of scalar tests {ψk}N
k=1, the scalar weak residual used in experiments aggre-
gates momentum and incompressibility contributions and averages across tests:
Rweak := 1
N
N
X
k=1
  eR(x)[ψk]
2 +
  eR(y)[ψk]
2 +
  eR(div)[ψk]
2
.
Wendland–wavelet test family.
For estimating the weak residual accurately and to provide a
strong learning signal, we need to sample sufficiently many test functions. Evaluating them on
the entire computational grid would be prohibitively costly. We therefore consider test functions
which are locally supported, such that we can restrict computations to smaller patches. Wendland
polynomials are a natural candidate meeting these requirements since they are compactly supported
within unit radius and allow for efficient gradient computation. Here, we will describe the test
functions in detail.
Each test function is drawn from a radially anisotropic family.
ψc,σ,b(x) =
 1 −r(x)
4
+
 4r(x) + 1

|
{z
}
Wendland C2
 1 −64 b r(x)4
|
{z
}
optional wavelet
,
22


where r(x) =
qP
j(xj −cj)2/σ2
j .
Length-scales σj are uniformly sampled from the range
[σmin ∆j, σmax ∆j]. By multiplying σmin and σmax with the grid spacing ∆j of axis j, we ob-
tain a parametrization that is intuitive to tune since the length-scales of the test functions are given
in pixel units. Instead of also sampling center points c uniformly and independently from the full
domain Ω, we instead start from the grid coordinates of the data, considering each grid point as one
center. We found that this way of ensuring spatial coverage improves training efficiency. To still
retain stochasticity, we apply i.i.d jitter to each center point. b ∼Ber(p) randomly toggles a high-
frequency wavelet factor that provides additional variability within the test functions and proved
especially effective on noisy data.
To enforce ψi|∂Ω= 0, we multiply every test function by a bridge mollifier
m(ξ) =
 (ξ −ξmin)(ξmax −ξ)

/(ξmax −ξmin)2,
applied per axis. This legitimizes the application of integration-by-parts in the derivation of the
weak forms. At training time we sample a set of test functions {ψ(i)}Ntest
i=1 independently per residual
evaluation and define the loss as
Rweak(x, α) =
1
Ntest
X
i
|⟨Lαx, ψ(i)⟩L2|2.
D.4
ADJOINT MATCHING DETAILS
As mentioned in the main paper, we introduce a scaling coefficient κ that allows us to attenuate the
magnitude of the noise variance. In this section, we provide a justification for using κ > 0 and lay
out numerical heuristics used in the implementation.
Memoryless Noise.
Domingo-Enrich et al. (2025) define a generative process with noise schedule
σ2(t) to be memoryless, if and only if σ2(t) = 2ηt + χ(t) with χ : [0, 1] →R chosen such that
∀t ∈(0, 1)
lim
t′→0 βt′ exp
 
−
Z t
t′
χ(s)
2γ2s
ds
!
= 0.
Specifically, they refer to σ(t) = √2ηt as the memoryless noise schedule. In our setting of βt = t
and γt = 1 −t, the memoryless noise schedule can be simplified to
σ(t) =
r
2(1 −t)
t
.
Lemma 1 (Scaling of memoryless noise). Consider a generative process as in 1 with βt = t and
γt = 1 −t. For 0 ≤κ < 1, the schedule σ2(t) = (1 −κ) 2ηt is memoryless.
Proof. First, we consider the integral term. The desired σ2(t) = (1 −κ) 2ηt implies that
χ(t) = −2κηt = −2γ2
t
κ
t(1 −t).
With this, we can simplify the integral term:
−
Z t
t′
χ(s)
2γ2s
ds = κ
Z t
t′
1
s(1 −s) ds = κ
Z t
t′
1
s +
1
1 −s ds
= κ

log(s) −log(1 −s)
t
t′
= κ
 
log
t
1 −t −log
t′
1 −t′
!
.
23


Thus, for an arbitrary fixed t ∈(0, 1), it holds that
βt′ exp
 
−
Z t
t′
χ(s)
2γ2s
ds
!
= t′ exp
 
κ

log
t
1 −t −log
t′
1 −t′
!
= t′

t
1 −t
κ 
t′
1 −t′
−κ
=

t
1 −t
κ
|
{z
}
const
t′ 1−κ
| {z }
→0
(1 −t′)κ
|
{z
}
bounded
−−−→
t′→0 0.
Therefore, scaling down the noise schedule by a factor 1 −κ is justified and consistent with the
theory provided in Domingo-Enrich et al. (2025).
Heuristics.
Still, the term ηt causes numerical problems for t = 0. Furthermore, it forces the
control u to be close to zero for t close to 1. Following the original paper, we instead use
ηt = 1 −t + h
t + h
,
where we choose h as the step size of our numerical ODE/SDE solver. This resolves infinite values
and allows for faster fine-tuning by letting the fine-tuned model deviate further from the base model
close to t = 1.
While κ is an effective tool to mitigate residual noise in final samples, increasing slows down train-
ing. As another way of improving sample quality without adding computational cost, we consider
non-uniform time grids when sampling memoryless rollouts. We observe that the most critical
phases of sampling are at the beginning, where noise magnitudes are the highest, and at the end,
where final denoising happens. Therefore, we tilt the uniform grid towards the endpoints:
Let S ∈N be the number of steps and define the uniform grid ti = i/S for i = 0, . . . , S. We tilt
this grid toward the endpoints by first applying a cosine–ease mapping
g(t) =
1
2
 1 −cos(πt)

,
t ∈[0, 1],
which has g(0) = 0, g(1) = 1. For a mixing parameter q ∈[0, 1], the tilted times are the convex
combination
˜ti = (1 −q) ti + q g(ti),
i = 0, . . . , S.
{˜ti} is strictly increasing and distributes grid points more densely near t = 0 and t = 1 for q > 0.
For PDE experiments, we use q = 0.9. This heuristic was not needed for latent-space models.
Loss Computation.
As in the original paper, we do not compute the Adjoint Matching loss
(Equation 4) for all simulated time steps, since the gradient signal for successive time steps is
similar. Note that for solving the lean adjoint ODE, we do not need to compute gradients through
the FM model, therefore we can compute the lean adjoint states efficiently but save computational
resources when computing the Adjoint Matching loss. Again, the last steps in the sampling process
are most important for empirical performance. For that reason, we also compute the loss for a
fraction of last steps Klast. Additionally, we sample K steps from the remaining time steps.
To ensure stable learning, we apply a clipping function to the loss to exclude noisy high-magnitude
gradients from training. Empirically, the values provided in Domingo-Enrich et al. (2025) work well
in our setting, i.e. we set the loss clipping threshold (LCT) as LCTx = 1.6 λ2
x and LCTα = 1.6 λ2
α
respectively.
D.5
FULL TRAINING ALGORITHM
Algorithm 1 details the complete optimization loop used in all experiments. Starting from the pre-
trained base flow vbase we attach two residual heads that (i) condition the state flow vft
t,x on the latent
24


parameter α and (ii) predict the parameter flow vft
t,α. Their respective output layers are initialized
to zero. The inverse predictor φ is first pre-trained on base samples and then frozen, providing
surrogate target flows for α. Each epoch rolls both the base and fine-tuned trajectories on the tilted
time grid, solves the lean-adjoint equation, and updates only the fine-tune parameters θ through the
Adjoint-Matching loss.
Algorithm 1 Adjoint Matching with Joint State–Parameter Evolution
Notation: vbase
x
, vft
x , vft
α denote functions (neural vector fields). Evaluations at time t are written in
bold, e.g. vbase
x,t
:= vbase
x
(xt, t).
Input: base state field vbase
x
; initialize vft ←vbase
x
and add heads for vft
x , vft
α.
1: Pretrain φ on x1 samples from vbase
x
by minimizing Rweak(x1, φ(x1)).
2: Freeze vbase
x
and φ; let θ be the trainable parameters of vft.
3: for epoch = 1, . . . do
4:
Sample x0 ∼N(0, I) and α0 ∼N(0, I); ¯T ←GET TILTED TIME(T).
5:
6:
for i = 0 to L −1 do
7:
t←ti, t+ ←ti+1, h←t+ −t.
8:
Base state velocity:
9:
vbase
x,t
= vbase
x
(xt, t).
10:
Surrogate terminal parameter:
11:
ˆx1 = xft
t + (1 −t) vbase
x,t
12:
ˆαft
1 = φ(ˆx1).
13:
Base parameter velocity (surrogate):
14:
vbase
α,t = (ˆαft
1 −αt)/(1 −t).
15:
Fine-tuned velocities:
16:
vft
x,t = vft
x (xt, αt, vbase
α,t , t)
17:
vft
α,t = vft
α(xt, αt, vbase
α,t , t).
18:
Forward steps (with noise σ(t)):
19:
xbase
t+
= STEP(xbase
t
, vbase
x,t , σ(t), h)
20:
xft
t+ = STEP(xft
t , vft
x,t, σ(t), h)
21:
αft
t+ = STEP(αft
t , vft
α,t, σ(t), h).
22:
end for
23:
24:
(ax,t, aα,t)t∈¯T ←SOLVELEANADJOINT({xbase
t
}, {xft
t }, {αft
t }).
25:
26:
Subsample time indices: form I ⊂{0, . . . , L} according to K and Llast
27:
28:
Per-step drifts: for each ti ∈I compute
29:
bft
x,ti = vft
x,ti + σ(ti)2
2 η(ti)
 vft
x,ti −
1
ti+ε xft
ti

;
bbase
x,ti = vbase
x,ti + σ(ti)2
2 η(ti)
 vbase
x,ti −
1
ti+ε xbase
ti

.
30:
bft
α,ti = vft
α,ti + σ(ti)2
2 η(ti)
 vft
α,ti −
1
ti+ε αft
ti

;
bbase
α,ti = vbase
α,ti + σ(ti)2
2 η(ti)
 vbase
α,ti −
1
ti+ε αft
ti

.
31:
32:
Per-step losses (with clipping): for each ti ∈I set
33:
ℓx(ti) = min

[σ(ti)−1(bft
x,ti −bbase
x,ti ) + σ(ti) ax,ti]2, LCTx
	
,
34:
ℓα(ti) = min

[σ(ti)−1(bft
α,ti −bbase
α,ti ) + σ(ti) aα,ti]2, LCTα
	
,
35:
(squaring and clipping applied elementwise, then summed over spatial dimensions)
36:
37:
Adjoint–matching objective:
38:
L =
1
|I|
P
ti∈I
 ℓx(ti) + ℓα(ti)

.
39:
θ ←GRADIENT DESCENT(θ, L)
40: end for
41: return vft, φ
25


E
DETAILS: EXPERIMENTS
Here we describe the fine-tuning configuration of the conducted experiments. Specifics about the
base model FM training can be found in Appendix C. In all experiments, we use AdamW as the
optimizer with a weight decay of 0.01 and all fine-tuning is conducted on a single NVIDIA L40S
GPU. As reported in the main paper, fine-tuning for Darcy takes less than one minute per epoch. For
the other, computationally more expensive experiments, one epoch of fine-tuning takes around one
minute (1-2 hours for 100 epochs).
E.1
METRICS
SSIM diversity.
In panel (a) of Figure 3, we report a SSIM-based (Wang et al., 2004) metric for
diversity, which is implemented as follows:
Given a batch {αi}B
i=1 of single-channel parameter maps scaled to [0, 1], we define diversity as the
mean complement of the pairwise structural similarity index (SSIM) :
DSSIM({αi}B
i=1) =
1
 B
2

X
1≤i<j≤B

1 −SSIM(αi, αj)

,
αi ∈[0, 1]H×W .
With SSIM ∈[0, 1] (data range = 1), DSSIM ∈[0, 1] and larger values indicate greater sample
diversity.
Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD).
To quantify distributional differences between generated
samples and the reference dataset Dref, we use the squared Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD2)
with an RBF kernel (Gretton et al., 2012). Given two batches {xi}N1
i=1 ⊂RD and {yj}N2
j=1 ⊂RD,
let
kσ(u, v) = exp

−1
2σ2 ∥u −v∥2
2

,
γ =
1
2σ2 .
The empirical MMD2 is
MMD2(x, y) =
1
N 2
1
X
i,i′
kσ(xi, xi′) + 1
N 2
2
X
j,j′
kσ(yj, yj′) −
2
N1N2
X
i,j
kσ(xi, yj).
In all experiments we use the median heuristic (Gretton et al., 2012), which sets the kernel bandwidth
σ2 to the median of the pairwise squared distances across the pooled samples z = {xi} ∪{yj}. In
practice we subsample up to 1000 points to compute
σ2 = median

∥za −zb∥2
2 : a < b
	
+ ε,
ε = 10−6,
which yields a stable and scale-adaptive kernel width (Garreau et al., 2017).
E.2
ABLATIONS AND BASELINES
Single Adjoint Matching.
To isolate the effect of modeling a joint flow over (x, α), we include
two ablations based on the vanilla Adjoint Matching (AM) objective of Domingo-Enrich et al.
(2025). Both variants optimize the standard lean-adjoint control loss over the state trajectory {xt},
using the same noise schedule, ODE discretization, and step subsampling as our full method.
Base AM freezes the inverse predictor φ. It is used only to compute PDE residuals but receives no
gradient updates, and no joint flow over α is modeled.
Base AM+φ keeps φ trainable and backpropagates through the residual term r, but still does not
model a coupled flow over (x, α). This variant tests whether updating the inverse predictor alone
can stabilize residuals without introducing a surrogate base flow.
PBFM.
As an alternative baseline we adapt Physics-Based Flow Matching (PBFM) (Baldan et al.,
2025) to our setting. Since PBFM requires paired (x, α) information during training, we augment
the method with our pre-trained inverse predictor φ to estimate α and enable residual computation.
Training follows the original ConFIG (Liu et al., 2024) update rule: at each iteration we compute the
26


FM loss and the residual loss, extract their gradients, and form a conflict-free update via ConFIG.
Our implementation mirrors the official code except for minor modifications to support complex-
valued weights (arising from FNO backbones). Due to memory constraints, we have to use much
lower batch sizes than with vanilla Flow Matching (16 instead of 128). We chose the number of
epochs such that the total number of update steps is twice that of our base FM models.
PBFM serves as a comparison against a training-time physics-regularized baseline, whereas our
method enforces physics post-training (data-free). Note that all our PDE settings deliberately in-
troduce a mismatch between the physics assumed during fine-tuning and the physics underlying the
training data. Such misspecification is inherently challenging for training-time methods like PBFM
which naturally places them at a disadvantage.
E.3
DARCY
For the Darcy experiments, we use the hyperparameters listed in Table 7. Note that one epoch
amounts to exactly one gradient descent step, meaning that we only fine-tune for 20 total steps. The
parameters λx, λα and λf are varied in the experiments, see Figure 3 in the main text.
Table 7: Darcy fine-tuning hyperparameters.
Hyperparameter
Value
Time–tilting factor q
0.9
λx
varying
λα
varying
λf
varying
Klast
20
K
20
Noise scaling κ
0.9
Sampling steps (per trajectory)
100
Training epochs
20
Learning rate
0.00002
Batch size
15
E.4
GUIDANCE
For generating the guidance results, we use the same model as in the Darcy experiments to further
highlight that we can infer functional joint distributions when starting from noisy observations.
Instead of the usual Euler stepping, here we use a Heun sampler following Huang et al. (2024).
While this is more expensive, since we need to differentiate through two forward passes of our
model to obtain the guidance gradient, it empirically improved faithfulness to the sparse observations
significantly. Note, however, that we only guide on sparse observations and not on PDE residuals.
The full sampling procedure is shown in Algorithm 2. In our experiments, we use 100 steps for
sampling and guidance scales of γx = γα = 0.75.
E.5
ELASTICITY
Fine-tuning in the elasticity experiment is more challenging than the Darcy denoising experiment,
which is why we increase the number of fine-tuning epochs to 100. Other parameters are the same
as in the Darcy experiments.
We compare our fine-tuning approach with the inference-time correction method ECI presented in
Cheng et al. (2024). Our implementation of the sampling correction method is given in Algorithm
3. For ECI, we set M = 5 and use 1000 steps when sampling, compared to 100 steps used when
sampling from the fine-tuned model. The reported residual heat maps in the main paper show one
test function per grid point, where the magnitude indicates local error without aggregating across
test functions.
27


Algorithm 2 Guided Heun sampler with sparse observations
Require: initial state x0; initial parameter α0; observed targets αobs; index set I; steps S; guidance
scales γx, γα; base fields vx
t , vα
t ; fine-tuned joint field vft
t
Ensure: trajectories {x(i)}S
i=0 and {α(i)}S
i=0
1: x(0) ←x0
2: α(0) ←α0
3: ti ←i/S for i = 0, . . . , S
4: h ←1/S
5: for i = 0 to S −1 do
6:
Predictor (Euler):
7:
vx ←vx
ti
 x(i)
8:
vα
base ←vα
ti
 x(i), α(i), vx
9:
(˜vx, ˜vα) ←vft
t
 x(i), α(i), vα
base

10:
ˆx ←x(i) + h ˜vx
11:
ˆα ←α(i) + h ˜vα
12:
if i < S −1 then
13:
Corrector (Heun):
14:
vx
+ ←vx
ti+1(ˆx)
15:
vα
base,+ ←vα
ti+1(ˆx, ˆα, vx
+)
16:
(˜vx
+, ˜vα
+) ←vft
t+1(ˆx, ˆα, vα
base,+)
17:
One-step terminal extrapolation:
18:
ˆα1 ←ˆα + (1 −ti+1) ˜vα
+
19:
Sparse-observation loss:
20:
L ←1
|I|
P
j∈I
αobs[j] −ˆα1[j]
2
2
21:
Heun average update:
22:
x(i+1) ←x(i) + h
2
 ˜vx + ˜vx
+

23:
α(i+1) ←α(i) + h
2
 ˜vα + ˜vα
+

24:
Decaying guidance:
25:
s ←
p
1 −i/S
26:
x(i+1) ←x(i+1) −s γx ∇x(i)L
27:
α(i+1) ←α(i+1) −s γα ∇α(i)L
28:
else
29:
Last step (no correction/guidance):
30:
x(i+1) ←ˆx
31:
α(i+1) ←ˆα
32:
end if
33: end for
34: return {x(i)}S
i=0, {α(i)}S
i=0
E.6
HELMHOLTZ AND STOKES LID-DRIVEN CAVITY
For both Helmholtz and the Stokes lid-driven cavity problems, we use the same configuration as in
the elasticity experiment (see 8), training for 100 epochs. We only adjust the number of input/output
channels.
E.7
NATURAL IMAGES: RECOLORING
For natural-image experiments, we adopt the class-conditional Latent Flow Matching (LFM) model
of Dao et al. (2023) trained on ImageNet-1k (Deng et al., 2009) with a DiT backbone (Peebles &
Xie, 2023). We fix an ImageNet class label y to condition the generator and hold a global text
28


Table 8: Elasticity fine-tuning hyperparameters.
Hyperparameter
Value
Time–tilting factor q
0.9
λx
varying
λα
varying
λf
varying
Klast
20
K
20
Noise scaling κ
0.9
Sampling steps (per trajectory)
100
Training epochs
100
Learning rate
0.00002
Batch size
15
Algorithm 3 ECI-style sampling with boundary correction
Require: initial state x0; steps S; inner correction iterations M; model drift vt(·); correction oper-
ator C(·); noise sampler Noise(·)
Ensure: trajectory {x(i)}S
i=0
1: x(0) ←x0
2: ti ←i/S for i = 0, . . . , S
3: for i = 0 to S −1 do
4:
t ←ti
5:
tnext ←ti+1
6:
Inner ECI corrections at fixed t:
7:
˜x ←x(i)
8:
for j = 1 to M do
9:
v ←vt(˜x)
10:
xos ←˜x + (1 −t) v
one-step Euler update
11:
xcorr ←C(xos)
apply boundary correction
12:
η ←Noise(shape of x0)
13:
˜x ←(1 −t) η + t xcorr
stochastic convex blending
14:
end for
15:
Final correction and roll-forward to tnext:
16:
v ←vt(˜x)
17:
xos ←˜x + (1 −t) v
18:
xcorr ←C(xos)
19:
η ←Noise(shape of x0)
20:
x(i+1) ←(1 −tnext) η + tnext xcorr
21: end for
22: return {x(i)}S
i=0
prompt c to define the fine-tuning direction. As a reward we use PickScore v1, a CLIP-H/14–based
preference scorer trained on the Pick-a-Pic dataset, that evaluates image–text compatibility via co-
sine similarity in the CLIP embedding space (Kirstain et al., 2023; Radford et al., 2021; Cherti et al.,
2023; Schuhmann et al., 2022), implemented with TRANSFORMERS (Wolf et al., 2020).
Concretely, we maximize R

T

D(z), α

, c

, where D is the latent-space decoder and T(·, α) is
a parametric per-pixel recoloring with coefficients α. The recoloring operates in logit space to avoid
29


saturation: with D(z) = x : Ω→(0, 1)3,
xε(ξ) = clip
 x(ξ), ε, 1 −ε

,
ℓ(ξ) = log
xε(ξ)
1 −xε(ξ) ∈R3,
we apply a residual r(ξ; α) = α Φbias
D
 x(ξ)

built from RGB monomials up to total degree D and
map back via y(ξ; α) = σ
 ℓ(ξ) + r(ξ; α)

. Equivalently, for channel c ∈{R, G, B},
yc(ξ; α) = σ

ℓc(ξ) +
M
X
m=1
αcm ϕm(x(ξ)) + αc,0

,
ϕm ∈ΦD.
This residual parameterization is identity at initialization (α = 0) and provides a low-dimensional,
channel-coupled appearance pathway that can disentangle content from presentation or reach color-
ings underrepresented by the base LFM. It is related to CNN-predicted polynomial color transforms
(quadratic in Chai et al. (2020)), whereas we use cubic polynomials and learn solely via the reward.
The parameter predictor φ here maps from latent feature tensors z to parameters α . First, a com-
pact scene descriptor is extracted by passing z through convolutional transformations, aggregating
information across multiple spatial scales via downsampling and global pooling, and enriching it
with low-order channel statistics of z (e.g., moments). The concatenated descriptor is projected into
a fixed embedding space, refined by a lightweight pre–LayerNorm MLP with a residual connection,
and finally mapped by a linear head to the recoloring coefficients α.
Building on the inverse predictor, we augment the base DiT backbone with two lightweight residual
heads that couple image dynamics and color–parameter evolution. First, the image path predicts the
base drift vbase
t,x (x, t). Then, we form a compact α-token by flattening the current color parameters α
and mapping them through a small MLP. This token is broadcast to a kα-channel feature map and
concatenated with (x, vbase
t,x ) into a shallow U–Net “correction” that outputs an additive refinement,
yielding
vft
t,x = vbase
t,x
+ Ux
 x, vbase
t,x , map(α), t

.
Second, the parameter path updates the polynomial recoloring coefficients by a residual on top
of the baseline parameter field vbase
t,α . Here, a dedicated α-projection module mirrors the inverse
predictor: multi-scale pooled conv features are fused—at the token level—with tokens from α and
vbase
t,α via a small fusion MLP, AdaLN/FiLM modulation of a head token, and a light SE rescaling of
conv features. The head then predicts a delta added to the baseline,
vft
t,α = vbase
t,α + Uα
 x, α, vbase
t,α

.
All correction heads are zero-initialized at their final projections, so fine-tuning starts from the base
behavior and departs smoothly as training progresses. Table 9 lists the parameters of the correction
U–Nets. In total, the modified architecture adds ≈9M parameters to the ≈130M parameters of the
base DiT backbone.
Table 9: Correction head hyperparameters (image and parameter paths).
Hyperparameter
Value
kα
16
U–Net base widths
[96, 128, 160, 192]
U–Net embedding
96
U–Net hidden lift
256
Attention stages
[2, 3]
Attention heads
8
With the LFM model, we use 40 steps when sampling and use the same training specifications as
the original Adjoint Matching paper (Domingo-Enrich et al., 2025). Again, we first pretrain the
predictor φ, and then perform joint fine-tuning with our Adjoint Matching formulation. Fine-tuning
is performed for 100 epochs with a batch size of 15.
30


F
ADDITIONAL RESULTS
In this section, we provide full experimental results and samples from the trained models.
F.1
FULL EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
F.1.1
DARCY
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
MMDx
1
2
3
4
weak (rel)
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
MMDα
1
2
3
4
weak (rel)
Base AM
Base AM + φ
AM
FM
PBFM
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
MMDx
20
40
60
80
strong (rel)
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
MMDα
20
40
60
80
strong (rel)
Figure 7: Darcy dataset: scatter plots showing the relationship between PDE residuals (weak and
strong) and distributional discrepancies (MMDx, MMDα) across all model variants and hyperpa-
rameter configurations. Each point corresponds to one configuration; lower values indicate better
physics consistency or distributional fidelity.
Table 10: Darcy dataset: full residual and distributional metrics for all methods
and hyperparameter settings
Model
λx
λf
Rweak ↓
Rstrong ↓
MMDx ↓
MMDα ↓
FM
–
–
3.56 × 100 (± 0.62)
7.11 × 101 (± 3.20)
0.005
0.011
PBFM
–
–
1.69 × 100 (± 0.14)
1.64 × 101 (± 1.66)
0.545
0.330
Base AM
1k
–
1.89 × 100 (± 0.40)
5.55 × 101 (± 2.04)
0.238
0.057
Base AM
5k
–
1.84 × 100 (± 0.55)
4.22 × 101 (± 1.63)
0.362
0.094
Base AM
10k
–
1.95 × 100 (± 0.81)
2.95 × 101 (± 1.14)
0.380
0.114
Base AM
20k
–
2.26 × 100 (± 1.38)
2.34 × 101 (± 1.10)
0.405
0.125
Base AM
100k
–
3.44 × 100 (± 2.98)
2.04 × 101 (± 1.05)
0.507
0.145
Base AM
1M
–
3.68 × 100 (± 3.17)
2.03 × 101 (± 1.04)
0.508
0.145
Base AM
100M
–
3.72 × 100 (± 3.05)
2.02 × 101 (± 1.03)
0.512
0.146
Base AM + φ
1k
–
2.29 × 100 (± 0.42)
5.32 × 101 (± 1.89)
0.255
0.061
Base AM + φ
5k
–
1.68 × 100 (± 0.51)
4.01 × 101 (± 1.46)
0.376
0.095
Base AM + φ
10k
–
1.85 × 100 (± 0.66)
3.2 × 101 (± 1.16)
0.394
0.107
Base AM + φ
20k
–
2.15 × 100 (± 1.18)
2.26 × 101 (± 1.00)
0.409
0.122
Base AM + φ
100k
–
3.36 × 100 (± 2.61)
1.98 × 101 (± 1.03)
0.481
0.143
Base AM + φ
1M
–
3.82 × 100 (± 3.27)
1.87 × 101 (± 0.99)
0.518
0.148
Base AM + φ
100M
–
3.58 × 100 (± 3.06)
1.9 × 101 (± 1.01)
0.519
0.150
continued on next page
31


Table 10 – continued from previous page
Model
λx
λf
Rweak ↓
Rstrong ↓
MMDx ↓
MMDα ↓
AM
1k
0.0
1.93 × 100 (± 0.32)
5.96 × 101 (± 2.60)
0.024
0.008
AM
10k
0.0
1.11 × 100 (± 0.27)
5.23 × 101 (± 2.18)
0.063
0.012
AM
20k
0.0
9.15 × 10−1 (± 2.29)
4.71 × 101 (± 2.13)
0.053
0.010
AM
20k
10
1.97 × 100 (± 0.38)
5.13 × 101 (± 2.15)
0.010
0.010
AM
20k
1
1.64 × 100 (± 0.34)
4.94 × 101 (± 2.20)
0.012
0.009
AM
20k
10−1
1.23 × 100 (± 0.27)
4.73 × 101 (± 2.21)
0.023
0.006
AM
20k
10−2
1.05 × 100 (± 0.24)
4.63 × 101 (± 2.08)
0.049
0.009
AM
20k
10−5
9.78 × 10−1 (± 2.18)
4.74 × 101 (± 2.19)
0.034
0.008
AM
100k
0.0
1.15 × 100 (± 0.28)
4.9 × 101 (± 2.58)
0.006
0.006
AM
1M
0.0
1.26 × 100 (± 0.32)
5.08 × 101 (± 2.72)
0.006
0.008
AM
10M
0.0
1.54 × 100 (± 0.35)
5.09 × 101 (± 2.69)
0.008
0.007
AM
100M
0.0
1.32 × 100 (± 0.31)
5.23 × 101 (± 2.77)
0.013
0.009
32


F.1.2
ELASTICITY
xbase
xft
xECI
xbase
xft
xECI
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
weak(xbase)
weak(xft)
weak(xECI)
weak(xbase)
weak(xft)
weak(xECI)
0.001
0.002
0.003
0.004
0.005
Figure 8: Fine-tuning towards boundary modification, comparing our approach with ECI. Samples
for two random seeds shared across models. Top row: displacement fields. Bottom row: corre-
sponding weak residual heatmaps.
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
MMDx
5
10
15
weak (rel)
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
MMDα
5
10
15
weak (rel)
Base AM
Base AM + φ
AM
FM
PBFM
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
MMDx
5
10
15
20
strong (rel)
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
MMDα
5
10
15
20
strong (rel)
Figure 9: Elasticity dataset: scatter plots showing the relationship between PDE residuals (weak
and strong) and distributional discrepancies (MMDx, MMDα) across all model variants and hyper-
parameter configurations. Each point corresponds to one configuration; lower values indicate better
physics consistency or distributional fidelity.
Table 11: Elasticity dataset: full residual and distributional metrics for all meth-
ods and hyperparameter settings
Model
λx
λf
Rweak ↓
Rstrong ↓
MMDx ↓
MMDα ↓
FM
–
–
1.59 × 101 (± 0.37)
1.83 × 101 (± 0.66)
0.238
0.049
PBFM
–
–
6.32 × 100 (± 0.82)
4.22 × 100 (± 0.26)
0.918
0.544
Base AM
1k
–
6.78 × 100 (± 1.09)
1.21 × 101 (± 0.34)
0.325
0.194
Base AM
10k
–
4.62 × 100 (± 0.85)
4.89 × 100 (± 1.29)
0.336
0.297
continued on next page
33


Table 11 – continued from previous page
Model
λx
λf
Rweak ↓
Rstrong ↓
MMDx ↓
MMDα ↓
Base AM
50k
–
5.47 × 100 (± 0.85)
4.16 × 100 (± 0.87)
0.404
0.314
Base AM
100k
–
6.18 × 100 (± 0.75)
4.0 × 100 (± 0.98)
0.396
0.288
Base AM
500k
–
6.68 × 100 (± 0.79)
4.04 × 100 (± 0.76)
0.417
0.299
Base AM
1M
–
6.08 × 100 (± 0.74)
3.76 × 100 (± 0.54)
0.446
0.288
Base AM + φ
1k
–
6.99 × 100 (± 0.99)
1.06 × 101 (± 0.30)
0.323
0.180
Base AM + φ
10k
–
4.58 × 100 (± 0.70)
4.91 × 100 (± 1.31)
0.339
0.298
Base AM + φ
50k
–
5.55 × 100 (± 0.72)
4.58 × 100 (± 0.94)
0.359
0.290
Base AM + φ
100k
–
5.65 × 100 (± 0.82)
4.16 × 100 (± 0.93)
0.375
0.288
Base AM + φ
500k
–
5.47 × 100 (± 0.72)
3.92 × 100 (± 0.77)
0.408
0.296
Base AM + φ
1M
–
6.39 × 100 (± 0.86)
4.09 × 100 (± 0.68)
0.469
0.286
AM
5k
1
5.57 × 100 (± 0.60)
4.34 × 100 (± 0.95)
0.510
0.248
AM
20k
1k
8.33 × 100 (± 1.34)
4.78 × 100 (± 1.15)
0.096
0.060
AM
30k
1k
8.44 × 100 (± 1.27)
4.48 × 100 (± 1.08)
0.091
0.060
AM
50k
1k
7.85 × 100 (± 1.17)
4.4 × 100 (± 1.08)
0.108
0.064
AM
100k
0.0
3.04 × 100 (± 0.31)
5.06 × 100 (± 0.66)
0.144
0.253
AM
100k
1k
6.78 × 100 (± 1.00)
4.43 × 100 (± 1.02)
0.091
0.074
AM
500k
1k
6.15 × 100 (± 0.77)
3.79 × 100 (± 0.87)
0.148
0.121
AM
1M
0.0
3.93 × 100 (± 0.27)
3.49 × 100 (± 0.48)
0.204
0.297
AM
1M
1k
5.14 × 100 (± 0.42)
2.85 × 100 (± 0.58)
0.197
0.203
34


F.1.3
HELMHOLTZ
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175
MMDx
5
10
15
weak (rel)
0.03000.03250.03500.03750.04000.04250.0450
MMDα
5
10
15
weak (rel)
Base AM
Base AM + φ
AM
FM
PBFM
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175
MMDx
10
15
20
25
strong (rel)
0.03000.03250.03500.03750.04000.04250.0450
MMDα
10
15
20
25
strong (rel)
Figure 10: Helmholtz dataset: scatter plots showing the relationship between PDE residuals (weak
and strong) and distributional discrepancies (MMDx, MMDα) across all model variants and hyper-
parameter configurations. Each point corresponds to one configuration; lower values indicate better
physics consistency or distributional fidelity.
Table 12: Helmholtz dataset: full residual and distributional metrics for all meth-
ods and hyperparameter settings
Model
λx
λf
Rweak ↓
Rstrong ↓
MMDx ↓
MMDα ↓
FM
–
–
1.5 × 101 (± 0.59)
2.55 × 101 (± 0.55)
0.177
0.033
PBFM
–
–
8.33 × 100 (± 3.04)
1.22 × 101 (± 0.33)
0.090
0.031
Base AM
5k
–
5.64 × 100 (± 2.09)
1.59 × 101 (± 0.33)
0.134
0.039
Base AM
50k
–
4.9 × 100 (± 1.85)
1.34 × 101 (± 0.32)
0.147
0.041
Base AM
100k
–
5.19 × 100 (± 2.01)
1.27 × 101 (± 0.32)
0.148
0.042
Base AM
1M
–
4.95 × 100 (± 1.81)
1.17 × 101 (± 0.33)
0.144
0.042
Base AM
100M
–
5.01 × 100 (± 2.00)
1.14 × 101 (± 0.32)
0.143
0.042
Base AM + φ
5k
–
5.46 × 100 (± 1.94)
1.59 × 101 (± 0.33)
0.124
0.039
Base AM + φ
50k
–
5.35 × 100 (± 2.31)
1.35 × 101 (± 0.34)
0.133
0.045
Base AM + φ
100k
–
5.02 × 100 (± 2.17)
1.32 × 101 (± 0.33)
0.126
0.043
Base AM + φ
1M
–
4.99 × 100 (± 2.12)
1.16 × 101 (± 0.33)
0.125
0.046
Base AM + φ
100M
–
5.41 × 100 (± 2.20)
1.17 × 101 (± 0.34)
0.127
0.044
AM
5k
1
5.32 × 100 (± 1.49)
1.48 × 101 (± 0.29)
0.081
0.035
AM
10k
0.0
4.71 × 100 (± 1.26)
1.35 × 101 (± 0.28)
0.069
0.037
AM
100k
0.0
4.3 × 100 (± 1.29)
1.14 × 101 (± 0.29)
0.069
0.037
AM
100k
0p1
4.49 × 100 (± 1.46)
1.17 × 101 (± 0.29)
0.069
0.040
AM
100k
1
4.42 × 100 (± 1.35)
1.21 × 101 (± 0.30)
0.068
0.041
AM
100k
1k
8.36 × 100 (± 2.65)
1.16 × 101 (± 0.25)
0.151
0.032
AM
500k
0.0
4.56 × 100 (± 1.47)
1.09 × 101 (± 0.31)
0.066
0.046
AM
1M
0.0
4.43 × 100 (± 1.43)
1.1 × 101 (± 0.30)
0.064
0.046
AM
1M
1k
5.83 × 100 (± 1.63)
1.1 × 101 (± 0.27)
0.106
0.032
AM
100M
0.0
4.43 × 100 (± 1.43)
1.1 × 101 (± 0.30)
0.065
0.045
continued on next page
35


Table 12 – continued from previous page
Model
λx
λf
Rweak ↓
Rstrong ↓
MMDx ↓
MMDα ↓
AM
100M
1
4.32 × 100 (± 1.43)
1.05 × 101 (± 0.30)
0.062
0.042
36


F.2
STOKES LID-DRIVEN CAVITY
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
MMDx
0
20
40
60
80
100
weak (rel)
0.1
0.2
0.3
MMDα
0
20
40
60
80
100
weak (rel)
Base AM
Base AM + φ
AM
FM
PBFM
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
MMDx
0
2
4
6
strong (rel)
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
MMDα
0
2
4
6
strong (rel)
Figure 11: Stokes dataset: scatter plots showing the relationship between PDE residuals (weak and
strong) and distributional discrepancies (MMDx, MMDα) across all model variants and hyperpa-
rameter configurations. Each point corresponds to a single configuration; lower values indicate
better physics consistency or distributional fidelity. PBFM is omitted in the strong-residual panels
because its training did not converge to physically meaningful samples (yielding strong residuals
several orders of magnitude larger than the other methods.
Table 13: Stokes dataset: full residual and distributional metrics for all methods
and hyperparameter settings.
Model
λx
λf
Rweak ↓
Rstrong ↓
MMDx ↓
MMDα ↓
FM
–
–
3.05 × 102 (± 3.16)
1.81 × 100 (± 0.44)
0.224
0.049
PBFM
–
–
9.94 × 100 (± 2.17)
1.15 × 101 (± 0.05)
0.227
0.071
Base AM
5k
–
1.42 × 101 (± 0.28)
1.47 × 100 (± 0.17)
0.484
0.212
Base AM
10k
–
1.16 × 101 (± 0.27)
1.43 × 100 (± 0.13)
0.500
0.233
Base AM
100k
–
6.88 × 100 (± 2.47)
1.07 × 100 (± 0.14)
0.561
0.266
Base AM
1M
–
5.3 × 100 (± 2.23)
9.94 × 10−1 (± 1.59)
0.611
0.267
Base AM
100M
–
5.05 × 100 (± 2.16)
9.04 × 10−1 (± 1.77)
0.749
0.271
Base AM + φ
5k
–
1.22 × 101 (± 0.22)
1.37 × 100 (± 0.12)
0.515
0.236
Base AM + φ
10k
–
9.0 × 100 (± 1.55)
1.3 × 100 (± 0.12)
0.532
0.256
Base AM + φ
100k
–
8.11 × 100 (± 2.28)
1.15 × 100 (± 0.13)
0.514
0.250
Base AM + φ
1M
–
8.55 × 100 (± 2.52)
1.16 × 100 (± 0.13)
0.535
0.252
Base AM + φ
100M
–
4.64 × 100 (± 2.04)
7.89 × 10−1 (± 1.59)
0.825
0.267
AM
10k
0.0
1.41 × 101 (± 0.93)
1.16 × 100 (± 0.20)
0.426
0.087
AM
10k
1
1.98 × 101 (± 0.77)
1.3 × 100 (± 0.24)
0.452
0.095
AM
50k
0.0
9.14 × 100 (± 4.80)
1.05 × 100 (± 0.20)
0.514
0.164
AM
100k
0.0
7.0 × 100 (± 3.51)
1.07 × 100 (± 0.20)
0.570
0.219
AM
100k
1k
3.43 × 101 (± 1.80)
4.87 × 100 (± 1.29)
0.186
0.107
AM
500k
0.0
6.26 × 100 (± 3.15)
1.07 × 100 (± 0.21)
0.605
0.235
AM
1M
0.0
5.8 × 100 (± 3.28)
1.03 × 100 (± 0.20)
0.632
0.229
AM
1M
1k
4.11 × 101 (± 2.73)
1.3 × 100 (± 0.30)
0.411
0.081
AM
100M
0.0
4.72 × 100 (± 2.84)
1.01 × 100 (± 0.15)
0.882
0.266
continued on next page
37


Table 13 – continued from previous page
Model
λx
λf
Rweak ↓
Rstrong ↓
MMDx ↓
MMDα ↓
AM
100M
100k
3.67 × 101 (± 2.47)
1.35 × 100 (± 0.34)
0.515
0.112
AM
100M
10k
1.45 × 101 (± 0.34)
1.64 × 100 (± 0.31)
0.678
0.131
AM
100M
1
4.9 × 100 (± 3.43)
1.02 × 100 (± 0.16)
0.885
0.260
AM
100M
1k
5.27 × 100 (± 2.36)
1.07 × 100 (± 0.12)
1.036
0.354
F.2.1
EFFECT OF FORCING MISSPECIFICATION
In the Stokes lid–driven cavity experiment, the base Flow Matching (FM) model is trained on data
generated with a nonzero Kolmogorov-type forcing term with amplitude F0 = 2.0. In the main
experiment reported in the paper, however, fine-tuning is performed under the assumption of no
forcing (F0 = 0.0). This represents a severe form of model–physics misspecification: the fine-
tuning objective assumes a qualitatively different flow regime from the data on which the FM model
was trained.
(a) F0 = 2.0
(b) F0 = 1.5
(c) F0 = 1.0
(d) F0 = 0.5
(e) F0 = 0.0
Figure 12: Representative stationary velocity fields for the same viscosity but different forcing am-
plitudes F0. With F0 = 0, the flow is driven solely by the moving lid and exhibits a single dominant
recirculating vortex. As the forcing strength increases, additional sub-vortices emerge and the flow
develops progressively more complex interior structures.
Figure 12 illustrates this mismatch. Samples with F0 = 2.0 exhibit complex flow structure with
multiple vortices driven by the interior forcing. In contrast, the flow for F0 = 0.0 contains essen-
tially a single large recirculating vortex induced only by the moving lid. These differences reflect
a fundamental change in the underlying PDE solution manifold rather than a minor perturbation.
Fine-tuning the FM model to match such a drastically different flow regime therefore constitutes an
inherently challenging, strongly out-of-distribution adaptation problem.
To study this effect more systematically, we perform additional fine-tuning runs using different
assumed forcing amplitudes ˜F0 ∈{0.0, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0}, while always starting from the same FM
model trained on data with F0 = 2.0. All other hyperparameters are kept fixed (λx = λα = 100k,
λf = 0.0). For each ˜F0, we compute the weak PDE residuals after fine-tuning and report them
relative to the mean weak residual of ground-truth data generated with the same forcing amplitude
˜F0. Because both pre-training of the inverse predictor and the fine-tuning itself use the same assumed
forcing ˜F0, we can also report baseline values for the FM model by applying the corresponding
inverse predictor to its samples. Figure 13 presents the resulting residuals.
Across all levels of assumed forcing, fine-tuning consistently reduces the weak residuals by at least
an order of magnitude compared to the corresponding FM baseline. As expected, the remaining
residuals strongly depend on the degree of misspecification: when ˜F0 is close to the true value
(2.0), the relative residuals after tuning approach 1.0, indicating consistency with the ground-truth
distribution. Under severe mismatch (e.g. ˜F0 = 0.0), the residuals remain higher despite signifi-
cant improvement relative to the FM baseline, which is consistent with the demand for structurally
significant modification.
38


0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
2.00
|F0 −̃F0|
1
2
5
10
100
200
400
weak (rel)
Figure 13: Weak residuals of the base FM model (red) and the fine-tuned model (black) as a function
of the assumed forcing amplitude. Reduced misspecification leads to substantially lower post-tuning
residuals, approaching the ground-truth residual level when the assumed forcing matches the true
physical value.
39


F.3
NON-CURATED SAMPLES
F.3.1
DARCY
(a) Base FM model
(b) Fine-tuned with λf = 1.0
(c) Fine-tuned with λf = 0.0
Figure 14: Darcy flow: non-curated samples of pressure distributions (left columns) and recovered
permeability fields (right columns). Each row was generated using the same initial noise across the
three models. Color scales are normalized per row for the pressure distributions. For the base model,
permeabilities are obtained with the pre-trained inverse predictor.
40


F.3.2
ELASTICITY
(a) Base FM model
(b) Fine-tuned with model
Figure 15: Non-curated samples from the elasticity experiment, where fine-tuning has to scale down
the lower boundary.
41


F.3.3
HELMHOLTZ
(a) Base FM model (damped)
(b) Fine-tuned (lossless)
Figure 16: Non-curated Helmholtz samples. In both panels, each row shows: (i) the real part of the
generated field, (ii) its imaginary part, and (iii) the recovered wave-speed parameter c.
42


F.3.4
STOKES
(a) Base FM model (forced)
(b) Fine-tuned (no forcing)
Figure 17: Non-curated Stokes samples. Each row displays: (i) the viscosity field ν, (ii) the velocity
magnitude ∥u∥, and (iii) a streamplot of the velocity (ux, uy).
43


F.3.5
GUIDANCE
Figure 18:
Guided samples with an increasing number of given observations, specifically
[25, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 750, 1000]. For each number of conditioning points, we generate
two samples from independent noise and condition on the same sparse samples, indicated as white
markers in the right column. As expected, with more points both x and α become more constrained
and less diverse.
44


F.3.6
NATURAL IMAGES: RECOLORING
(a) Base LFM model
(b) Vanilla Adjoint Matching
(c) Joint Adjoint Matching
Figure 19: Non-curated independent samples from LFM model conditioned on class ”macaw” and
using guidance scale 4.0. Models were fine-tuned to maximize PickScore using the prompt ”close-
up pop art of a macaw parrot”.
45


(a) Base LFM model
(b) Vanilla Adjoint Matching
(c) Joint Adjoint Matching
Figure 20: Non-curated independent samples from LFM model conditioned on class ”boathouse”
and using guidance scale 4.0. Models were fine-tuned to maximize PickScore using the prompt
”boathouse with green and purple curtains of northern lights.” Our joint model is able to generate
the colors demanded in the prompt while retaining diversity in the generated boathouses.
46