SADDLE-TO-SADDLE DYNAMICS EXPLAINS A
SIMPLICITY BIAS ACROSS NEURAL NETWORK
ARCHITECTURES
Yedi Zhang1,*
Andrew Saxe1,2
Peter E. Latham1
1Gatsby Computational Neuroscience Unit, University College London
2Sainsbury Wellcome Centre, University College London
*Correspondence: yedi@gatsby.ucl.ac.uk
ABSTRACT
Neural networks trained with gradient descent often learn solutions of increasing
complexity over time, a phenomenon known as simplicity bias. Despite being
widely observed across architectures, existing theoretical treatments lack a uni-
fying framework. We present a theoretical framework that explains a simplicity
bias arising from saddle-to-saddle learning dynamics for a general class of neu-
ral networks, incorporating fully-connected, convolutional, and attention-based
architectures. Here, simple means expressible with few hidden units, i.e., hid-
den neurons, convolutional kernels, or attention heads. Specifically, we show that
linear networks learn solutions of increasing rank, ReLU networks learn solu-
tions with an increasing number of kinks, convolutional networks learn solutions
with an increasing number of convolutional kernels, and self-attention models
learn solutions with an increasing number of attention heads. By analyzing fixed
points, invariant manifolds, and dynamics of gradient descent learning, we show
that saddle-to-saddle dynamics operates by iteratively evolving near an invari-
ant manifold, approaching a saddle, and switching to another invariant manifold.
Our analysis also disentangles data-induced and initialization-induced saddle-to-
saddle dynamics. In particular, the former leads to low-rank weights while the
latter to sparse weights. Equipped with the theory, we predict the effects of data
distribution and weight initialization on the duration and number of plateaus in
learning. Overall, our theory offers a framework for understanding when and why
gradient descent progressively learns increasingly complex solutions.
1
INTRODUCTION
Deep neural networks trained with gradient descent often learn functions of increasing complexity
over the course of training (Arpit et al., 2017; Kalimeris et al., 2019; Rahaman et al., 2019; Saxe
et al., 2019; Refinetti et al., 2023; Bhattamishra et al., 2023; Abbe et al., 2023). This dynamical
simplicity bias has been observed across architectures (Shah et al., 2020; Teney et al., 2022; Edel-
man et al., 2024), tasks (Karkada et al., 2025; Wurgaft et al., 2025; Wang & Pehlevan, 2025), and
training paradigms ranging from supervised (Rahaman et al., 2019) to reinforcement (Schaul et al.,
2019) and self-supervised learning (Simon et al., 2023). A particularly striking manifestation is
stage-like dynamics: extended plateaus in loss alternating with bursts of rapid improvement as net-
works progress through increasingly complex input-output maps (Saxe et al., 2014; 2019). These
dynamics, known as “saddle-to-saddle” dynamics because they can result from trajectories passing
near a sequence of saddle points (Jacot et al., 2022; Berthier, 2023; Pesme & Flammarion, 2023),
have been documented in deep linear networks (Saxe et al., 2014; 2019; Gissin et al., 2020; Ja-
cot et al., 2022), two-layer and deep ReLU networks (Maennel et al., 2018; Boursier et al., 2022;
Chistikov et al., 2023; Wang & Ma, 2023; Kumar & Haupt, 2024; Zhang et al., 2025a; Wu et al.,
2025; Bantzis et al., 2026), and self-attention models (Boix-Adsera et al., 2023; Rende et al., 2024;
Geshkovski et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2025b; Varre et al., 2025), and have been hypothesized to be
universal (Ziyin et al., 2025; Kunin et al., 2025). Yet the same architectures can also exhibit smooth,
exponential training dynamics, simply by changing the initialization (Jacot et al., 2018; Tu et al.,
1


B Linear fully-connect net
C Linear convolutional net
D ReLU fully-connect net
F Linear self-attention
Loss curve example
G Quadratic net
E ReLU convolutional net
A Loss landscape cartoon
①   ②  ③          ④
Training loss
Epoch
Cyan manifold:
1 effective unit
(phase①②)   
Yellow manifold:
2 effective units
(phase③④)
Gradient descent trajectory
Weights
Figure 1: Saddle-to-saddle dynamics occurs in the gradient descent training of a wide range of
architectures and leads to a dynamical simplicity bias. (A) Saddle-to-saddle dynamics on a cartoon
loss landscape. The cyan and yellow curves represent invariant manifolds, on which the network
implements input-output maps expressible by the architecture with one and two units, respectively.
In general, saddle-to-saddle dynamics operates by repeating: i) during the plateau, escaping from a
saddle associated with a width-h network onto an invariant manifold with effective width (h + 1);
ii) during the rapid transition phase, approaching a fixed point on that manifold, which is a saddle
associated with a width-(h + 1) network. This figure shows two repeats of this process. (B-G) Loss
and weight dynamics for various architectures. Each panel shows the loss during training (top), and
the first-layer weights during the intermediate plateau (bottom left, phase 3 in panel A) and at the
end of learning (bottom right). The first-layer weights to each hidden unit are two-dimensional and
plotted as black dots. During the intermediate plateau, all networks visit a saddle, at which the input-
output map of the network can be expressed by the architecture with only one unit. The network
then converges to a stable fixed point, at which the input-output map is expressible with two units.
The weight structures in BC, DE, and FG correspond to three categories of weight configurations
of fixed points in Theorem 1; see Section 3 for details. A video version of this figure is provided
at URL. Dynamics with other two-layer architectures and deep networks are provided in Figures 3
to 5. Experimental details are provided in Appendix I.
2024; Kunin et al., 2024); and more broadly, the emergence of stage-like dynamics can hinge on the
data distribution (Yoshida & Okada, 2019; Goldt et al., 2020) and architectural choices (Orhan &
Pitkow, 2018).
These diverse findings raise foundational questions about the nature of dynamical simplicity bias in
deep neural networks. Is there a universal mechanism driving stage-like dynamics, or a collection
of architecture-specific mechanisms? Is there a principled link between stages and simplicity, such
that earlier stages in learning are simpler? And if simplicity does underlie these dynamics, what is
the operative notion of simplicity, and how does it reflect an architecture’s inductive bias?
Here we answer these questions. We show that for a range of architectures, including linear net-
works, ReLU networks, convolutional networks, quadratic networks, and linear self-attention (Fig-
ure 1B-G), there is a universal mechanism, saddle-to-saddle dynamics, driving stage-like learning.
The operative notion of simplicity is the number of effective units in the architecture, i.e., hidden
neurons, convolutional kernels, or attention heads. In particular, first we show that fixed points
in the loss landscape are recursively embedded: fixed points of smaller networks are embedded
in saddle points of larger networks, yielding a nested hierarchy of saddles. Second, we show that
saddle points are connected by invariant manifolds along which a larger network behaves like a
smaller one, preserving simplicity along the connecting trajectories. Third, the link between saddle-
2


to-saddle dynamics and simplicity arises from the interplay of the saddle hierarchy and timescale
separation. Specifically, timescale separation steers dynamics toward invariant manifolds associated
with simple input-output maps, thereby controlling the complexity increment at each stage. We also
disentangle data-induced and initialization-induced timescale separation, showing that the former
leads to low-rank weights (Figure 1B,C) while the latter leads to sparse weights (Figure 1F,G). To-
gether, this theory paints a unified picture of embedded saddles, invariant manifolds, and dynamics
which give rise to a simplicity bias across architectures, and predicts when instead non-stage-like
behavior will arise.
Related work. We are inspired by a line of pioneering research that began with the seminal work
of Fukumizu & Amari (2000) and continued in subsequent studies (Inoue et al., 2003; Amari et al.,
2006; Wei et al., 2008; Amari et al., 2011; Fukumizu et al., 2019; Simsek et al., 2021; Zhang et al.,
2021). In particular, Fukumizu & Amari (2000) first discovered a hierarchy of fixed points in two-
layer fully-connected nonlinear neural networks. While their fixed points could, in principle, be ex-
tended to convolutional and attention-based architectures, they did not explore this, as convolutional
architectures had not been popularized and attention-based architectures had not been invented. We
study the fixed points across fully-connected, convolutional, and attention-based architectures. Fur-
ther, we go beyond fixed points to study invariant manifolds and saddle-to-saddle dynamics, with
implications for simplicity bias. A more detailed literature review is provided in Appendix A.
2
NETWORK SETUP
Let f(x) represent a neural network with input x ∈RD. We focus on one layer in the network with
H units and trainable parameters θ1:H,
f(x; θ1:H) = gout
 H
X
i=1
ϕ(gin(x); ui)vi
!
,
where θi =

vi
ui

.
(1)
Here gout(·) and gin(·) represent the processing after and before this layer, which are usually deeper
and shallower layers of the network. The weights are ui ∈RNu, vi ∈RNv, and thus θi ∈RNu+Nv.
We place the second-layer weight vi on the right because ϕ(gin(x); ui) may be a scalar (as in a
fully-connected layer) or matrix (as in a self-attention layer). The network output f(x; θ1:H) can be
a scalar or vector. We will specify their dimensionality when we make them concrete.
The definition of a layer in Equation (1) incorporates major architectures. For a fully-connected
layer, a unit is a hidden neuron: ϕ(z; w, b) = σ(w⊤z + b) where σ(·) is the activation func-
tion and w, b are the weight and bias. For a convolutional layer, a unit is a convolutional kernel:
ϕ(z; u) = σ(u ∗z) where ∗denotes convolution. For a self-attention layer, a unit is an attention
head: ϕ(Z; K, Q) = I⊗smax(ZQK⊤Z⊤)Z where smax(·) denotes row-wise softmax and K, Q
are the key and query weights. A self-attention layer fits into our definition as follows,
ATTN(Z) = smax(ZQK⊤Z⊤)ZV = I ⊗smax(ZQK⊤Z⊤)Zvec(V ) = ϕ(Z; K, Q)v. (2)
We note that this is not a common notation for self-attention; we present it solely to show that
Equation (1) incorporates self-attention. Hence, statements we will make about Equation (1) apply
to fully-connected, convolutional, and self-attention architectures.
Let {xµ, yµ}P
µ=1 be a supervised learning training set. The training loss is averaged over the training
set L = 1
P
PP
µ=1 ℓ(yµ, f(xµ)), where the loss function ℓis second order differentiable with respect
to f(x), including common choices like squared error loss. The parameters are trained with gradient
flow on the training loss,
˙θ = −∂L
∂θ = −∂L
∂f(x)
∂f(x)
∂θ
.
(3)
Gradient flow captures the behavior of gradient descent in the limit of a small learning rate.
Definition 1. A point θ∗is a fixed point of the gradient flow dynamics in Equation (3) if ∂L
∂θ

θ∗= 0.
3
LOSS LANDSCAPE: EMBEDDED FIXED POINTS
In this section, we establish that saddles generally exist in networks described by Equation (1). We
show that a fixed point of a narrow network gives rise to a set of fixed points in a wider network.
3


These fixed points are constructed by embedding the narrow network into the wider network, as
formalized in Theorem 1.
Theorem 1 (Embedded fixed points). If a network defined by Equation (1) with (H −1) units has
a fixed point θ∗
1:(H−1) yielding an input-output map f ∗(x), then there exists θ1:H ∈S such that a
network with H units implements the same map f ∗(x) and θ1:H is a fixed point.
We construct θ1:H by setting the first (H −1) units to θ∗
1:(H−1) and modifying them as follows.
(i) For any ϕ, the set S includes
uH = u∗
i , vH = γvv∗
i , vi = (1 −γv)v∗
i ,
γv ∈R, i ∈{1, · · · , H −1}.
(4)
(ii) If ∃uzero such that ∀z, ϕ(z; uzero) = 0, the set S includes
uH = uzero, vH = 0.
(5)
(iii) If ϕ(z; u) is degree-1 homogeneous in u, that is ∀α ∈F, ϕ(z; αu) = αϕ(z; u), where F = R
for general homogeneous functions, and F = R≥0 for positively homogeneous functions, e.g.,
the ReLU activation function, the set S includes
uH = γuu∗
i , vH = γvv∗
i , vi = (1 −γuγv)v∗
i ,
γv ∈R, γu ∈F, i ∈{1, · · · , H −1}. (6)
(iv) If ϕ(z; u) is linear in u, that is degree-1 homogeneous, ∀α ∈R, ϕ(z; αu) = αϕ(z; u), and
additive, ϕ(z; ui) + ϕ(z; uj) = ϕ(z; ui + uj), the set S includes
uH =
H−1
X
i=1
γuiu∗
i , vH =
H−1
X
i=1
γviv∗
i ,
γvi, γui ∈R,
vi = v∗
i −γui
H−1
X
j=1
γvjv∗
j ,
i = 1, · · · , H −1.
(7)
The proof of Theorem 1, which is provided in the Appendix E, consists of two steps. First, verify that
for the weight configurations given above, the width-H network implements the same input-output
map as the width-(H −1) network. Second, show that gradients of the weights in the width-H
network are either equal or proportional to those in the width-(H −1) network, which are zero.
Remark 1. Equation (4) is valid for any activation function ϕ, while the rest are valid for ϕ with
specific properties, implying that certain properties of ϕ give rise to a larger set of embedded fixed
points in weight space. Equations (4) and (5) were first discovered by Fukumizu & Amari (2000).
We extend these two constructions with Equations (6) and (7). This extension is crucial for studying
learning dynamics, as the saddles visited during learning turn out to fall under Equations (5) to (7)
but not Equation (4).
By induction, we obtain Corollary 2 by repeatedly applying Theorem 1 to embed multiple units
in one layer and embed units in multiple layers of a deep network, with each layer defined by
Equation (1).
Corollary 2. If a depth-L network with hl units in layer l (l = 1, · · · , L) has a fixed point yielding
an input-output map f ∗(x), then for a depth-L network with Hl ≥hl units in each layer, there
exist weight configurations such that the network implements the same map f ∗(x) and the weight
configurations are fixed points.
Theorem 1 and Corollary 2 indicate that the global minima of a narrow network, even if they incur
nonzero training loss, remain fixed points of the gradient flow dynamics in any wider network with
the same architecture. For example, the global minimum of a width-1 network typically lacks the ex-
pressivity to fit the training set and thus incurs nonzero loss. In a wide network capable of achieving
zero loss, the fixed points corresponding to the width-1 network global minimum are either saddles
or local minima. They are guaranteed to be saddles in deep linear networks with rank-r (r ≥1)
target maps (Baldi & Hornik, 1989; Kawaguchi, 2016) and, under mild conditions, are saddles in
general architectures (Fukumizu & Amari, 2000; Fukumizu et al., 2019).
In Figure 1, we show six cases where the network first visits a saddle, corresponding to a solution
expressible by the architecture with a single unit. The network then converges to a stable fixed point,
4


corresponding to a solution expressible with two units. The fixed points visited during learning fit
into three different categories in Theorem 1. In panels (B,C), the fixed points visited during learning
are described by Equation (7), corresponding to rank-one and rank-two weights. In panels (D,E),
the fixed points are described by Equation (6), corresponding to one and two rays of proportional
weights. In panels (E,F), the fixed points are described by Equation (5), corresponding one or two
units with large weights with the rest being near zero.
4
INVARIANT MANIFOLD: EFFECTIVELY NARROW NETWORKS
An invariant manifold of a dynamical system is a manifold such that any point starting on it remains
on the manifold under the system’s evolution. In Theorem 3, we show that for gradient flow dy-
namics of the class of neural networks we consider, invariant manifolds always exist. Further, these
invariant manifolds correspond to weight configurations that make the network effectively narrower
than its actual width.
Theorem 3 (Invariant manifolds). Let T be any time such that one of the following conditions (i)-
(iv) holds in a network defined by Equation (1). Then, in each case, the stated relationship between
the weights is preserved for all t ≥T under gradient flow dynamics:
(i) For any ϕ, two units have equal weights: θi = θj.
(ii) If ∃uzero such that ∀z, ϕ(z; uzero) = 0, a unit has zero weights: vi = 0, ui = uzero.
(iii) If ϕ(z; u) is homogeneous in u, two units have proportional weights: θi = γθj, γ ∈F.
(iv) If ϕ(z; u) is linear in u, any number of units have linear dependence: θi = P
j̸=i γjθj.
The precise definitions of homogeneity and linearity are given in Theorem 1.
The proof of Theorem 3 is provided in the Appendix F and is relatively straightforward. For ex-
ample, when θi = θj, the gradients of θi and θj are equal and thus they stay equal for all future
time. The invariant manifolds are larger in weight space when ϕ has zero, homogeneity or linearity
properties, similar to the enlarged set of embedded fixed points in Theorem 1.
When the weights of a network lie on an invariant manifold, its input-output map is expressible with
fewer units than its actual width: simply remove the i-th unit and appropriately modify the remaining
weights (see Appendix F.3). Further, we can have more than one constraints; e.g., θ1 = θ2 and
θ3 = θ4. Each added constraint reduces the effective width by 1. Hence, when weights evolve
on an invariant manifold, the simplicity of the network’s input-output map is constrained by the
effective width associated with the invariant manifold, rather than the actual width.
The invariant manifolds indicate that there exist gradient flow paths connecting pairs of embedded
fixed points defined in Theorem 1 (see Appendix F.4). Following such a path corresponds to an
iteration of saddle-to-saddle dynamics. To see this, starting from an embedded fixed point with
effective width h, we may apply a carefully chosen small perturbation that moves the weights onto
the invariant manifold with effective width (h + 1). This perturbation corresponds to breaking
exactly one constraint. By Theorem 3, the dynamics then remains on the invariant manifold for all
time, eventually converging to a fixed point on it, that is, an embedded fixed point with effective
width (h + 1). This process is one saddle-to-saddle transition: from the saddle with effective width
h to the saddle with (h + 1). We illustrate this process in Figure 1A. In the next section, we develop
heuristic arguments showing that the gradient flow dynamics can, in some cases, naturally evolve
near such saddle-to-saddle paths on the invariant manifolds.
5
SADDLE-TO-SADDLE DYNAMICS
The embedded fixed points (Section 3) and invariant manifolds (Section 4) hold for general architec-
tures defined by Equation (1). To analyze learning dynamics, however, we must work with concrete
architectures. We focus on two-layer networks where ϕ(x; u) is a homogeneous polynomial in the
weights u, studying the linear and quadratic cases in detail. The linear case includes fully-connected
linear networks and convolutional linear networks. The quadratic case includes quadratic networks
(defined by Equation (71)) and linear self-attention. Both types of architectures exhibit saddle-to-
saddle dynamics, but their mechanisms differ. We show that the mechanism in the linear case is a
5


timescale separation between directions across all units due to the distribution of the data, while the
the mechanism in the quadratic case is a timescale separation between units due to initialization.
5.1
LINEAR CASE: TIMESCALE SEPARATION BETWEEN DIRECTIONS
Consider a two-layer network in which ϕ(x; u) is linear in the weights u,
f(x; θ1:H) =
H
X
i=1
viu⊤
i z(x) ≡W z,
where v ∈RNv, u, z ∈RNu.
(8)
Here z(x) denotes any function of the input x, as ϕ(x; u) is linear in u but not necessarily linear in
x. The gradient flow dynamics of Equation (8) trained on squared loss is
˙vi = (Σyz −W Σzz) ui,
˙ui = (Σyz −W Σzz)⊤vi,
i = 1, · · · , H,
(9)
where the data statistics are Σyz =
1
P
PP
µ=1 yµz⊤
µ , Σzz =
1
P
PP
µ=1 zµz⊤
µ . When the weights
are initialized to be small, i.e., vi(0) = O(ϵ), ui(0) = O(ϵ), i = 1, · · · , H, the first terms in
Equation (9) dominate: Σyz −W Σzz = Σyz + O(ϵ2). The weights thus approximately evolve as
a linear dynamical system (Equation (10)), which we analyze in Theorem 4.
Theorem 4 (Timescale separation between directions). Consider the linear dynamical system
˙vi = Σyzui,
˙ui = Σ⊤
yzvi,
i = 1, · · · , H.
(10)
Let the singular value decomposition of Σyz be given by Σyz = PD
k=1 skqkr⊤
k , D = min(Nv, Nu)
with singular values s1 ≥· · · ≥sD, and let the largest singular value s1 have multiplicity r
(1 ≤r < D). Let the initial weights be sampled independently from a Gaussian distribution
N(0, ϵ2) with a small ϵ. When the projection of the weights on the span of the top r singular vectors
reaches O(1), that is
∥P θi∥= O(1),
where P = 1
2
r
X
k=1

qk
rk
 
q⊤
k
r⊤
k

, θi =

vi
ui

,
(11)
the projection on the remaining subspace is ∥(I −P )θi∥= O(ϵ1−sr+1/s1) almost surely.
We provide the proof in Appendix G.2 and the intuition here. The second and first-layer weights
vi, ui grow exponentially along the singular vectors qk, rk, respectively, at the rate eskt. Relative
to the dominant growth rate es1t along the top singular vectors, the components along other singular
vectors decay as e(sk−s1)t, k = r + 1, · · · , D. Consequently, during the early phase, the weights
become increasingly aligned with the top singular vectors and thus approximately rank-r. Taking
r = 1 as an example, the weights become approximately rank-one; specifically, vi aligns with q1,
and ui aligns with r1 for every i.
Theorem 3 implies that rank-r weights constrain a linear network to an invariant manifold corre-
sponding to effective width r. Since the early phase dynamics drives the weights to be approxi-
mately rank-r, the network evolves near the invariant manifold and approaches a fixed point on it.
This is the first iteration of saddle-to-saddle dynamics. In weight space, the weights move from the
initial saddle at zero to the second saddle. In function space, the network learns a more complex
solution, changing from a constant zero function to a rank-r projection of the target linear map.
Subsequent iterations of saddle-to-saddle dynamics operate similarly. The dynamics near a rank-r
saddle, corresponding to a plateau in the loss, is again approximately a linear dynamical system
˙vi = eΣyzui,
˙ui = eΣ⊤
yzvi,
i = 1, · · · , H.
(12)
where eΣyz is Σyz projected onto a rank-(D −r) subspace; see Appendix G.3. Via the same rea-
soning as Theorem 4, the weights grow the fastest along the top singular vectors of eΣyz. Low-rank
weight growth will again place a linear network near an invariant manifold with few more effective
units, guiding the dynamics toward a fix point on that manifold.
To summarize, in the linear case, distinct singular values of the input-output correlation matrix
induce a timescale separation between weight growth along different directions. If all singular values
are distinct, the timescale separation leads to approximately rank-one weight growth during a loss
plateau, causing the escape path from a saddle to closely follow an invariant manifold with one more
effective unit.
6


5.2
QUADRATIC CASE: TIMESCALE SEPARATION BETWEEN UNITS
We now consider a two-layer network in which ϕ(x; u) is quadratic in the weights u,
f(x; θ1:H) =
H
X
i=1
viu⊤
i Z(x)ui,
where vi ∈R, ui ∈RD, Z ∈RD×D.
(13)
Here Z(x) denotes any function of the input x. For example, linear self-attention fits into Equa-
tion (13) with Z(x) being a cubic function of the input x, and ϕ(x; u) a quadratic function of the
key and query weights u = [vec(K), vec(Q)]. We consider the scalar output case because it already
has saddle-to-saddle dynamics and involves non-closed-form solutions. The gradient flow dynamics
of Equation (13) trained on squared loss is given by Equation (44). Near small initialization, the
quadratic terms in Equation (44) dominate. In Proposition 5, we analyze the approximate dynamics
and show that one unit with the largest initialization grows much faster than the rest.
Proposition 5 (Timescale separation between units). Consider the dynamical system
˙vi = u⊤
i ΣyZui,
˙ui = 2viΣyZui,
i = 1, · · · , H.
(14)
Assume ΣyZ is symmetric and has both positive and negative eigenvalues. Let the initial weights be
sampled independently from a Gaussian distribution N(0, ϵ2) with a small ϵ. When weights in one
of the units reaches O(1), the rest of the units is O(ϵ) almost surely.
We provide derivations in Appendix H.2 and the intuition here. The intuition is that the quadratic
dynamics in Equation (14) is a rich-get-richer process. We can get a flavor of such dynamics by
considering the simplest quadratic dynamics, ˙vi = v2
i , which has the solution
vi(t) =

1
vi(0) −t
−1
,
i = 1, · · · , H.
(15)
By solving for t with i and j, we can write vi(t) in terms of vj(t) as
vi(t) =

1
vj(0)
vj(0)
vi(0) −1

+
1
vj(t)
−1
.
(16)
Assuming initial conditions of order O(ϵ), for example vi(0) ∼N(0, ϵ2), and letting vj be the
unit with the largest initial value, we see that when vj(t) ∼O(1), the other units are still small:
vi(t) ∼O(ϵ) for i ̸= j. Thus, under quadratic dynamics ˙vi = v2
i , distinct initial conditions of
the units induce a timescale separation in their growth. Although the general case, analyzed in
Appendix H.2, is more complicated, the timescale separation between units essentially comes from
the same mechanism.
In Theorem 3(ii), we showed that if ϕ(x; 0) = 0 ∀x, then nonzero weights in one unit and zero
weights in the rest of the units constrain a network to an invariant manifold with effective width one.
Since the early dynamics drives one unit to grow much faster than the rest, the network evolves near
the invariant manifold with effective width one and approaches a fixed point on it. This is the first
iteration of saddle-to-saddle dynamics. Subsequent iterations operate similarly. Starting near the
first saddle, one unit has nonzero weights and (H −1) units still have small weights. The dynamics
near the first saddle drives one of the (H −1) units to grow much faster than the rest. Hence,
the escape path from the first saddle again approximately follow the invariant manifold with two
effective units, steering the dynamics toward a fixed point on that manifold. This process repeats.
For ϕ(x; u) that is quadratic in u and has ϕ(x; 0) = 0 ∀x, the distinct initial weights in each unit
induce a timescale separation between the weight growth in different units. One unit grows much
faster than the rest, causing the escape path from a saddle to closely follow an invariant manifold
with one more effective unit.
Higher-order polynomial activation. If ϕ(x; u) is a homogeneous polynomial of degree p > 2 in
the weights u, we conjecture that there is still a timescale separation between units, possibly even
stronger than the quadratic case. Our intuition is that the dynamics near zero has a similar flavor
to the scalar dynamics, ˙vi = vp
i . By similar reasoning to Proposition 5, the unit with the largest
initialization grows much faster than the rest, causing a timescale separation between units. The
dynamics in the cubic (p = 3) case is consistent with our intuition, as shown in Figure 4G.
7


A  Loss curves of different network width H
B  Loss curves of power law data with different exponent κ 
linear fully-connected net
linear self-attention
C  Loss curves of different initialization structure
D  Loss curves of different initialization scale
linear self-attention
linear fully-connected net
Figure 2: The effect of network width, data distribution, and initialization on learning dynamics.
Singular values of Σyz (linear network) or positive singular values of ΣyZ (linear self-attention)
follow a power law, sn = n−κ, n = 1, 2, 3, and are normalized such that P3
n=1 sn = 1. (A) In-
creasing the number of units H has little effect on the loss curves of linear networks, but shortens
the plateaus in linear self-attention. κ = 1 for both models. (B) Decreasing the power law exponent
κ shortens the plateaus in both linear networks and linear self-attention. Setting κ = 0 eliminates
plateaus in linear networks but does not eliminate plateaus in linear self-attention. H is 100 for
linear networks and 25 for linear self-attention. (C) Linear networks with small isotropic initializa-
tion or large low-rank initialization exhibit saddle-to-saddle dynamics. The loss landscape cartoon
illustrates large rank-r weights places a linear network near an invariant manifold with r effective
units and thus approaches saddles during learning. (D) Increasing the scale of isotropic random
initialization shortens the plateaus. κ = 1 for panels C,D.
General nonlinear activation. If ϕ(x; u) is a general nonlinear activation function, we can Taylor
expand ϕ(x; u) around u = 0. With small initialization, u ≈0, the early dynamics near ini-
tialization is dominated by the lowest-order non-vanishing term in the Taylor expansion, assuming
the data statistic associated with that term is nonzero. For example, in a two-layer fully-connected
tanh network, the lowest-order non-vanishing term is the linear term. The tanh network thus de-
velops rank-one weights in the early phase near initialization, similar to Theorem 4. However,
the subsequent dynamics is not necessarily saddle-to-saddle, since rank-one weights do not gen-
erally correspond to invariant manifolds for tanh networks; see Figure 4D. By comparison, in a
two-layer fully-connected network with activation ϕ(x; u) = u⊤x · tanh(u⊤x), the lowest-order
non-vanishing term is quadratic. The network thus has a timescale separation between units similar
to Proposition 5, and exhibits saddle-to-saddle dynamics as shown in Figure 4F.
6
IMPLICATIONS
We now validate our theory and demonstrate its predictive power by examining how the network
width, data distribution, and initialization affect learning dynamics.
Effect of network width. Our analysis in Section 5.1 shows that in linear networks, the timescale
separation occurs between directions across all units. Consequently, increasing the number of units
in linear networks has little effect on the dynamics, provided there are enough units to learn all
directions. In contrast, the analysis in Section 5.2 implies that increasing the number of units in net-
works where ϕ(x; u) that is quadratic in u can shorten the plateaus. That is because the timescale
separation in the quadratic case occurs between learning different units due to their distinct initial
values. When sampling initial weights from a fixed distribution, increasing the number of weights
reduces the gaps between adjacent samples, thereby shortening the plateaus. Simulations in Fig-
ure 2A confirm our theoretical prediction. In this case, increasing the number of heads of linear
self-attention, for which ϕ(x; u) is quadratic in u, speeds up learning, while increasing the width of
fully-connected linear networks does not. This demonstrates an interesting, theoretically grounded
advantage of scaling up linear self-attention over scaling up fully-connected linear networks.
8


Effect of data distribution. In linear networks, the timescale separation in learning different di-
rections arises from the distinct singular values of Σyz. In Figure 2B, we let the singular values
of Σyz follow a power law. As expected, decreasing the power law exponent narrows the gaps
between singular values, thereby shortening the plateaus. When the exponent is 0, all the singular
values are equal, eliminating the plateaus except the initial one corresponding to the escape from
the saddle at zero. In this case, the largest singular value has multiplicity r = D in Theorem 4,
causing the solution to jump directly from effective width 0 to D, skipping the stages in between.
By contrast, in networks for which ϕ(x; u) is quadratic in u, the timescale separation is due to the
distinct initial values in the units. Therefore, setting the positive singular values of ΣyZ to be equal
shortens but does not eliminate plateaus. Simulations with linear self-attention in Figure 2B confirm
our prediction.
Effect of initialization structure. According to our theory, to have saddle-to-saddle dynamics the
initialization must be near an invariant manifold, and the escape path from saddles must follow an
invariant manifold. Perhaps surprisingly, however, initializing near a saddle is not a necessary con-
dition. In Figure 2C we initialize the weights near an invariant manifold but away from saddles; for
linear networks, this corresponds to large low-rank weights with a small perturbation. As predicted,
learning undergoes saddle-to-saddle dynamics. Because the initialization is away from saddles, there
is not a plateau at the start; the loss first drops exponentially and then exhibits plateaus followed by
sigmoid-shaped drops. To our knowledge, this regime has not previously been observed. If we
initialize near the invariant manifold associated with exactly the required number of effective units,
loss undergoes a rapid exponential drop, even though the network learns a solution with low-rank
weights, which is the feature learning solution in linear networks (Dominé et al., 2025). This result
adds nuance to the common view that exponential loss curves are often a hallmark of lazy learning
(Jacot et al., 2018; Chizat et al., 2019).
Effect of initialization scale. We examine the effect of initialization scale when using an isotropic
Gaussian distribution, a common choice in practice. As shown in Figure 2D, increasing the ini-
tialization scale gradually shortens the plateaus. Saddle-to-saddle dynamics becomes weaker in the
sense that the learning trajectory does not approach the saddles as closely as it does with small ini-
tialization. For intermediate initialization scales, plateaus are less pronounced, yet the network still
approximately learns solution of increasing complexity, similar to the case with small initialization.
In architectures that have saddle-to-saddle dynamics, we conjecture that the distance from the initial
weights to invariant manifolds associated with low effective width determines the strength of feature
learning. This criterion can be viewed as an extension of prior beliefs, in which the relative scale
of initial weights across layers (Dominé et al., 2025) or the rank of initial weights (Liu et al., 2024)
were thought to determine the strength of feature learning.
7
DISCUSSION
We studied the gradient flow dynamics of a broad class of architectures, analyzing fixed points,
invariant manifolds, and dynamics near fixed points. Our theoretical framework reveals a general
mechanism for saddle-to-saddle dynamics and provides a definition of simplicity that reflects the
inductive biases of different architectures. When a network exhibits saddle-to-saddle dynamics, it
recruits one or a few new effective units during each transition and learns solutions of increasingly
complexity, where complexity is measured by the minimal number of units required for the archi-
tecture to express the solution. On a high level, we identify a mechanism behind the intuition that
a neural network can decompose a task into smaller pieces and learn piece by piece over time. The
learning process sometimes reconstructs the network’s own architecture, one unit at a time.
Condition for saddle-to-saddle dynamics. Saddle-to-saddle dynamics depends on two conditions:
(i) the escape path from saddles closely follows invariant manifolds with few additional effective
units; and (ii) the initialization is close to an invariant manifold with fewer effective units than
needed to attain zero loss. As an example violating the first condition, two-layer tanh networks
with small initialization develop rank-one weights during the early phase. This is because the tanh
function is approximately linear near zero, and thus the early dynamics is approximately a linear
dynamical system, similar to Theorem 4. However, since tanh is not homogeneous, rank-one weights
do not correspond to an invariant manifold with effective width one. Consequently, tanh networks
are not guided to approach the saddle with one effective unit, and probably do not have saddle-to-
9


saddle dynamics in general. As an example violating the second condition, large isotropic random
initialization is almost surely away from invariant manifolds. Thus, neural networks with large
random initialization generally do not exhibit saddle-to-saddle dynamics. A special case violating
the second condition is when an architecture has full expressivity with a single unit, such as linear
networks with scalar input or scalar output (Shamir, 2019), and linear self-attention with merged
key and query weights (Zhang et al., 2025b).
Deep networks. The fixed points and invariant manifolds in Sections 3 and 4 apply to general
deep networks defined by Equation (1), whereas the analysis of dynamics in Section 5 only applies
to two-layer networks. Nonetheless, many deep newtorks still exhibit saddle-to-saddle dynamics,
with some showing a timescale separation between directions and some between units, as shown
in Figure 5. Although a general treatment of deep network dynamics is beyond the scope of this
paper, we propose a conjecture for predicting which type of timescale separation (between directions
or units) arises within a layer of a deep network. We conjecture that the order of the activation
function ϕ(gin(x); ui), whether it is linear or quadratic in ui, continues to predict learning behaviors,
including the type of the timescale separation and the effects of width and data distribution. In deep
networks, gin(x) in Equation (1) may involve weights that are not specific to any individual unit of
the layer under consideration, i.e., weights in shallower layers not indexed by i. For example, let us
consider the second hidden layer of a depth-3 linear fully-connected network:
f(x) =
H
X
i=1
viϕ(gin(x); ui) =
H
X
i=1
viu⊤
i gin(x),
where gin(x) = W x,
(17)
where W is the first-layer weight matrix.1 Since ϕ(gin(x); ui) = u⊤
i gin(x) is linear in ui, we pre-
dict a timescale separation between directions similar to Section 5.1, and that the weights acquire an
additional rank during each saddle-to-saddle transition. This is consistent with the existing literature
(Gidel et al., 2019; Gissin et al., 2020) and our simulations in Figure 5.
We further note that deep networks introduce several new questions that do not arise in the two-
layer setting. If deep networks visit a sequence of embedded fixed points and learn increasingly
complex solutions by recruiting additional effective units, which layers recruit additional units at
each increase in complexity? This question is particularly interesting for transformers, which have
self-attention, fully-connected layers, and skip connections. With skip connections, a deep network
may also learn increasingly complex solutions by recruiting additional layers. This possibility seems
consistent with the literature on layer pruning showing that large-scale transformers maintain their
performance when removing up to half of the deeper layers and performing a small amount of
finetuning (Gromov et al., 2025). Another work modeled the increasingly complex solutions of a
transformer by increasing the width of its fully-connected layers (Wurgaft et al., 2025).
Exhaustiveness of fixed points and invariant manifolds. Although we have not identified any
fixed points or invariant manifolds beyond Proposition 5 and Theorem 3, it remains an open question
whether these are exhaustive. If not, under what conditions do they become so? If the fixed points
are exhaustive under reasonable assumptions, they would provide a useful diagnostic: each plateau
during training would indicate that the network is implementing a solution expressible by a narrower
sub-network. Moreover, the fixed points and invariant manifolds we describe arise solely from the
network architecture and thus hold for any training data set. A further question is whether particular
data sets can induce more fixed points or invariant manifolds than the data-agnostic ones (Zhao et al.,
2023; Misof et al., 2025).
Other architectures and learning rules. At its core, our theory exploits the permutation symmetry
of units in feed-forward neural networks defined by Equation (1). Permutation symmetry exists
beyond feed-forward architectures and supervised learning rules. Indeed, stage-like learning curves
have been observed in recurrent neural networks (Proca et al., 2025; Ger & Barak, 2025), and other
learning rules, such as reinforcement learning (Schaul et al., 2019), self-supervised learning (Simon
et al., 2023), and predictive coding (Innocenti et al., 2024). This suggests the possibility of an even
broader theory that incorporates these architectures and learning rules, with progressive permutation
symmetry breaking as a unifying explanation for progressive learning behaviors.
1A depth-3 linear network differs from linear self-attention, PH
i=1 XQiK⊤
i X⊤XVi, because in linear
self-attention all weights are indexed by i, and thus cannot be absorbed into gin(x).
10


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank Samuel Liebana, Loek van Rossem, Erin Grant, Stefano Sarao Mannelli, Máté Lengyel,
Valentina Njaradi, Aaditya K. Singh, Andrew Lampinen, and Jin Hwa Lee for helpful conversations,
and anonymous reviewers for their constructive feedback.
We thank the following funding sources: Gatsby Charitable Foundation (GAT3850 and GAT4058)
to YZ, AS, and PEL; Sainsbury Wellcome Centre Core Grant from Wellcome (219627/Z/19/Z) to
AS; Schmidt Science Polymath Award to AS. AS is a CIFAR Azrieli Global Scholar in the Learning
in Machines & Brains program.
REFERENCES
Emmanuel Abbe, Enric Boix Adserà, and Theodor Misiakiewicz.
Sgd learning on neural net-
works: leap complexity and saddle-to-saddle dynamics. In Gergely Neu and Lorenzo Rosasco
(eds.), Proceedings of Thirty Sixth Conference on Learning Theory, volume 195 of Proceed-
ings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 2552–2623. PMLR, 12–15 Jul 2023.
URL https:
//proceedings.mlr.press/v195/abbe23a.html.
El Mehdi Achour, François Malgouyres, and Sébastien Gerchinovitz. The loss landscape of deep
linear neural networks: a second-order analysis. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 25(242):
1–76, 2024. URL http://jmlr.org/papers/v25/23-0493.html.
Madhu S. Advani, Andrew M. Saxe, and Haim Sompolinsky. High-dimensional dynamics of gener-
alization error in neural networks. Neural Networks, 132:428–446, 2020. ISSN 0893-6080. doi:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neunet.2020.08.022. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/scienc
e/article/pii/S0893608020303117.
Shun-ichi Amari, Hyeyoung Park, and Tomoko Ozeki. Singularities affect dynamics of learning
in neuromanifolds. Neural Computation, 18(5):1007–1065, 05 2006. ISSN 0899-7667. doi:
10.1162/neco.2006.18.5.1007. URL https://doi.org/10.1162/neco.2006.18.5.1007.
Shun-ichi Amari, Tomoko Ozeki, Florent Cousseau, and Haikun Wei. Dynamics of learning in
hierarchical models – singularity and milnor attractor. In Rubin Wang and Fanji Gu (eds.), Ad-
vances in Cognitive Neurodynamics (II), pp. 3–9, Dordrecht, 2011. Springer Netherlands. ISBN
978-90-481-9695-1.
Devansh Arpit, Stanisław Jastrze¸bski, Nicolas Ballas, David Krueger, Emmanuel Bengio, Maxin-
der S. Kanwal, Tegan Maharaj, Asja Fischer, Aaron Courville, Yoshua Bengio, and Simon
Lacoste-Julien. A closer look at memorization in deep networks. In Doina Precup and Yee Whye
Teh (eds.), Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 70
of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 233–242. PMLR, 06–11 Aug 2017. URL
https://proceedings.mlr.press/v70/arpit17a.html.
Alexander Atanasov, Blake Bordelon, and Cengiz Pehlevan. Neural networks as kernel learners:
The silent alignment effect. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022.
URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=1NvflqAdoom.
Yuri Bakhtin. Noisy heteroclinic networks. Probability theory and related fields, 150(1):1–42, 2011.
Pierre Baldi and Kurt Hornik. Neural networks and principal component analysis: Learning from
examples without local minima. Neural Networks, 2(1):53–58, 1989. ISSN 0893-6080. doi:
https://doi.org/10.1016/0893-6080(89)90014-2. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/scie
nce/article/pii/0893608089900142.
Ioannis Bantzis, James B Simon, and Arthur Jacot. Saddle-to-saddle dynamics in deep relu net-
works: Low-rank bias in the first saddle escape. In The Fourteenth International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2026. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=B4zcoLvjw0.
Raphaël Berthier. Incremental learning in diagonal linear networks. Journal of Machine Learning
Research, 24(171):1–26, 2023. URL http://jmlr.org/papers/v24/22-1395.html.
11


Raphaël Berthier, Andrea Montanari, and Kangjie Zhou. Learning time-scales in two-layers neural
networks. Foundations of Computational Mathematics, pp. 1–84, 2024.
Raphaël Berthier. Diagonal linear networks and the lasso regularization path, 2026. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2509.18766.
Satwik Bhattamishra, Arkil Patel, Varun Kanade, and Phil Blunsom. Simplicity bias in transform-
ers and their ability to learn sparse Boolean functions. In Anna Rogers, Jordan Boyd-Graber,
and Naoaki Okazaki (eds.), Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 5767–5791, Toronto, Canada, July 2023.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.317.
URL
https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.317/.
Enric Boix-Adsera, Etai Littwin, Emmanuel Abbe, Samy Bengio, and Joshua Susskind. Trans-
formers learn through gradual rank increase. In A. Oh, T. Naumann, A. Globerson, K. Saenko,
M. Hardt, and S. Levine (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 36,
pp. 24519–24551. Curran Associates, Inc., 2023. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper
_files/paper/2023/file/4d69c1c057a8bd570ba4a7b71aae8331-Paper-Conference.pdf.
Etienne Boursier and Nicolas Flammarion.
Simplicity bias and optimization threshold in two-
layer ReLU networks. In Aarti Singh, Maryam Fazel, Daniel Hsu, Simon Lacoste-Julien, Felix
Berkenkamp, Tegan Maharaj, Kiri Wagstaff, and Jerry Zhu (eds.), Proceedings of the 42nd In-
ternational Conference on Machine Learning, volume 267 of Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research, pp. 5241–5275. PMLR, 13–19 Jul 2025a. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v2
67/boursier25a.html.
Etienne Boursier and Nicolas Flammarion. Early alignment in two-layer networks training is a
two-edged sword. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 26(183):1–75, 2025b. URL http:
//jmlr.org/papers/v26/24-1523.html.
Etienne Boursier, Loucas PILLAUD-VIVIEN, and Nicolas Flammarion. Gradient flow dynamics
of shallow relu networks for square loss and orthogonal inputs.
In S. Koyejo, S. Mohamed,
A. Agarwal, D. Belgrave, K. Cho, and A. Oh (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, volume 35, pp. 20105–20118. Curran Associates, Inc., 2022. URL https://proceedi
ngs.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2022/file/7eeb9af3eb1f48e29c05e8dd3342b286-P
aper-Conference.pdf.
Yuan Cao, Zhiying Fang, Yue Wu, Ding-Xuan Zhou, and Quanquan Gu. Towards understanding
the spectral bias of deep learning. In Zhi-Hua Zhou (ed.), Proceedings of the Thirtieth Interna-
tional Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, IJCAI-21, pp. 2205–2211. International Joint
Conferences on Artificial Intelligence Organization, 8 2021. doi: 10.24963/ijcai.2021/304. URL
https://doi.org/10.24963/ijcai.2021/304. Main Track.
Ping-yeh Chiang, Renkun Ni, David Yu Miller, Arpit Bansal, Jonas Geiping, Micah Goldblum,
and Tom Goldstein. Loss landscapes are all you need: Neural network generalization can be
explained without the implicit bias of gradient descent. In The Eleventh International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2023. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=QC10RmRb
Zy9.
Dmitry Chistikov, Matthias Englert, and Ranko Lazic. Learning a neuron by a shallow relu net-
work: Dynamics and implicit bias for correlated inputs. In A. Oh, T. Naumann, A. Globerson,
K. Saenko, M. Hardt, and S. Levine (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
volume 36, pp. 23748–23760. Curran Associates, Inc., 2023. URL https://proceedings.neur
ips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/file/4af24e6ce753c181e703f3f0be3b5e20-Paper-Confe
rence.pdf.
Lénaïc Chizat, Edouard Oyallon, and Francis Bach. On lazy training in differentiable programming.
In H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, A. Beygelzimer, F. d'Alché-Buc, E. Fox, and R. Garnett (eds.),
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 32. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019.
URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2019/file/ae614c557843b1df
326cb29c57225459-Paper.pdf.
12


Kamaludin Dingle, Chico Q Camargo, and Ard A Louis. Input–output maps are strongly biased
towards simple outputs. Nature communications, 9(1):761, 2018.
Clémentine Carla Juliette Dominé, Nicolas Anguita, Alexandra Maria Proca, Lukas Braun, Daniel
Kunin, Pedro A. M. Mediano, and Andrew M Saxe. From lazy to rich: Exact learning dynamics in
deep linear networks. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations,
2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=ZXaocmXc6d.
Ezra Edelman, Nikolaos Tsilivis, Benjamin L. Edelman, Eran Malach, and Surbhi Goel.
The
evolution of statistical induction heads: In-context learning markov chains. In A. Globerson,
L. Mackey, D. Belgrave, A. Fan, U. Paquet, J. Tomczak, and C. Zhang (eds.), Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, volume 37, pp. 64273–64311. Curran Associates, Inc., 2024.
doi: 10.52202/079017-2050. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2
024/file/75b0edb869e2cd509d64d0e8ff446bc1-Paper-Conference.pdf.
Nelson Elhage, Tristan Hume, Catherine Olsson, Nicholas Schiefer, Tom Henighan, Shauna Kravec,
Zac Hatfield-Dodds, Robert Lasenby, Dawn Drain, Carol Chen, Roger Grosse, Sam McCandlish,
Jared Kaplan, Dario Amodei, Martin Wattenberg, and Christopher Olah. Toy models of superpo-
sition, 2022. URL https://transformer-circuits.pub/2022/toy_model/index.html.
Jonathan Frankle and Michael Carbin. The lottery ticket hypothesis: Finding sparse, trainable neural
networks. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2019. URL https://open
review.net/forum?id=rJl-b3RcF7.
Spencer Frei, Niladri S. Chatterji, and Peter L. Bartlett. Random feature amplification: Feature
learning and generalization in neural networks. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 24(303):
1–49, 2023a. URL http://jmlr.org/papers/v24/22-1132.html.
Spencer Frei, Gal Vardi, Peter Bartlett, Nathan Srebro, and Wei Hu. Implicit bias in leaky reLU net-
works trained on high-dimensional data. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2023b. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=JpbLyEI5EwW.
Kenji Fukumizu and Shun-ichi Amari.
Local minima and plateaus in hierarchical structures of
multilayer perceptrons. Neural Networks, 13(3):317–327, 2000. ISSN 0893-6080. doi: https:
//doi.org/10.1016/S0893-6080(00)00009-5. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0893608000000095.
Kenji Fukumizu, Shoichiro Yamaguchi, Yoh-ichi Mototake, and Mirai Tanaka.
Semi-flat min-
ima and saddle points by embedding neural networks to overparameterization.
In H. Wal-
lach, H. Larochelle, A. Beygelzimer, F. d'Alché-Buc, E. Fox, and R. Garnett (eds.), Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 32. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019.
URL
https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2019/file/a4ee59dd868ba016
ed2de90d330acb6a-Paper.pdf.
Shivam Garg, Dimitris Tsipras, Percy S Liang, and Gregory Valiant. What can transformers learn
in-context? a case study of simple function classes. In S. Koyejo, S. Mohamed, A. Agarwal,
D. Belgrave, K. Cho, and A. Oh (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
volume 35, pp. 30583–30598. Curran Associates, Inc., 2022. URL https://proceedings.neur
ips.cc/paper_files/paper/2022/file/c529dba08a146ea8d6cf715ae8930cbe-Paper-Con
ference.pdf.
Robert Geirhos, Patricia Rubisch, Claudio Michaelis, Matthias Bethge, Felix A. Wichmann, and
Wieland Brendel. Imagenet-trained CNNs are biased towards texture; increasing shape bias im-
proves accuracy and robustness. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2019.
URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=Bygh9j09KX.
Yoav Ger and Omri Barak. Learning dynamics of RNNs in closed-loop environments. In The
Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2025. URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=P63bBMXCIH.
Borjan Geshkovski, Hugo Koubbi, Yury Polyanskiy, and Philippe Rigollet. Dynamic metastability
in the self-attention model, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.06833.
13


Nikhil Ghosh, Song Mei, and Bin Yu. The three stages of learning dynamics in high-dimensional
kernel methods. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022. URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=EQmAP4F859.
Gauthier Gidel, Francis Bach, and Simon Lacoste-Julien. Implicit regularization of discrete gradient
dynamics in linear neural networks. In H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, A. Beygelzimer, F. d'Alché-
Buc, E. Fox, and R. Garnett (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol-
ume 32. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/p
aper/2019/file/f39ae9ff3a81f499230c4126e01f421b-Paper.pdf.
Daniel Gissin, Shai Shalev-Shwartz, and Amit Daniely. The implicit bias of depth: How incremental
learning drives generalization. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2020.
URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=H1lj0nNFwB.
Margalit Glasgow. SGD finds then tunes features in two-layer neural networks with near-optimal
sample complexity: A case study in the XOR problem. In The Twelfth International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=HgOJlxzB16.
Micah Goldblum, Marc Anton Finzi, Keefer Rowan, and Andrew Gordon Wilson. Position: The no
free lunch theorem, kolmogorov complexity, and the role of inductive biases in machine learning.
In Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Zico Kolter, Katherine Heller, Adrian Weller, Nuria Oliver, Jonathan
Scarlett, and Felix Berkenkamp (eds.), Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Ma-
chine Learning, volume 235 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 15788–15808.
PMLR, 21–27 Jul 2024. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v235/goldblum24a.html.
Sebastian Goldt, Marc Mézard, Florent Krzakala, and Lenka Zdeborová. Modeling the influence
of data structure on learning in neural networks: The hidden manifold model. Phys. Rev. X, 10:
041044, Dec 2020. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevX.10.041044. URL https://link.aps.org/doi/10.
1103/PhysRevX.10.041044.
Andrey Gromov, Kushal Tirumala, Hassan Shapourian, Paolo Glorioso, and Dan Roberts.
The
unreasonable ineffectiveness of the deeper layers. In The Thirteenth International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=ngmEcEer8a.
Katherine Hermann and Andrew Lampinen.
What shapes feature representations?
exploring
datasets, architectures, and training. In H. Larochelle, M. Ranzato, R. Hadsell, M.F. Balcan,
and H. Lin (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 33, pp. 9995–
10006. Curran Associates, Inc., 2020. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/p
aper/2020/file/71e9c6620d381d60196ebe694840aaaa-Paper.pdf.
G. E. Hinton, J. L. McClelland, and D. E. Rumelhart. Distributed representations, pp. 77–109. MIT
Press, Cambridge, MA, USA, 1986. ISBN 026268053X.
Geoffrey E. Hinton and Drew van Camp.
Keeping the neural networks simple by minimiz-
ing the description length of the weights. In Proceedings of the Sixth Annual Conference on
Computational Learning Theory, COLT ’93, pp. 5–13, New York, NY, USA, 1993. Associa-
tion for Computing Machinery.
ISBN 0897916115.
doi: 10.1145/168304.168306.
URL
https://doi.org/10.1145/168304.168306.
Sepp Hochreiter and Jürgen Schmidhuber. Flat minima. Neural Computation, 9(1):1–42, 01 1997.
ISSN 0899-7667. doi: 10.1162/neco.1997.9.1.1. URL https://doi.org/10.1162/neco.1997.
9.1.1.
David Holzmüller and Ingo Steinwart. Training two-layer relu networks with gradient descent is
inconsistent. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 23(181):1–82, 2022. URL http://jmlr.o
rg/papers/v23/20-830.html.
Wei Hu, Lechao Xiao, Ben Adlam, and Jeffrey Pennington. The surprising simplicity of the early-
time learning dynamics of neural networks. In H. Larochelle, M. Ranzato, R. Hadsell, M.F.
Balcan, and H. Lin (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 33, pp.
17116–17128. Curran Associates, Inc., 2020. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_f
iles/paper/2020/file/c6dfc6b7c601ac2978357b7a81e2d7ae-Paper.pdf.
14


Minyoung Huh, Hossein Mobahi, Richard Zhang, Brian Cheung, Pulkit Agrawal, and Phillip Isola.
The low-rank simplicity bias in deep networks. Transactions on Machine Learning Research,
2023. ISSN 2835-8856. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=bCiNWDmlY2.
Francesco Innocenti, El Mehdi Achour, Ryan Singh, and Christopher L. Buckley. Only strict saddles
in the energy landscape of predictive coding networks? In A. Globerson, L. Mackey, D. Belgrave,
A. Fan, U. Paquet, J. Tomczak, and C. Zhang (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, volume 37, pp. 53649–53683. Curran Associates, Inc., 2024. URL https://proceedi
ngs.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/file/6075fc6540b9a3cb951752099efd86ef-Pap
er-Conference.pdf.
Masato Inoue, Hyeyoung Park, and Masato Okada. On-line learning theory of soft committee ma-
chines with correlated hidden units –steepest gradient descent and natural gradient descent–. Jour-
nal of the Physical Society of Japan, 72(4):805–810, 2003. doi: 10.1143/JPSJ.72.805. URL
https://doi.org/10.1143/JPSJ.72.805.
Arthur Jacot, Franck Gabriel, and Clement Hongler. Neural tangent kernel: Convergence and gen-
eralization in neural networks. In S. Bengio, H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, K. Grauman, N. Cesa-
Bianchi, and R. Garnett (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 31.
Curran Associates, Inc., 2018. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2
018/file/5a4be1fa34e62bb8a6ec6b91d2462f5a-Paper.pdf.
Arthur Jacot, François Ged, Berfin ¸Sim¸sek, Clément Hongler, and Franck Gabriel. Saddle-to-saddle
dynamics in deep linear networks: Small initialization training, symmetry, and sparsity, 2022.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.15933.
Ziwei Ji and Matus Telgarsky.
Gradient descent aligns the layers of deep linear networks.
In
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2019. URL https://openreview.net/f
orum?id=HJflg30qKX.
Ziwei Ji and Matus Telgarsky.
Directional convergence and alignment in deep learning.
In
H. Larochelle, M. Ranzato, R. Hadsell, M.F. Balcan, and H. Lin (eds.), Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems, volume 33, pp. 17176–17186. Curran Associates, Inc., 2020. URL
https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2020/file/c76e4b2fa54f8506719a
5c0dc14c2eb9-Paper.pdf.
Dimitris Kalimeris, Gal Kaplun, Preetum Nakkiran, Benjamin Edelman, Tristan Yang, Boaz Barak,
and Haofeng Zhang. Sgd on neural networks learns functions of increasing complexity. In H. Wal-
lach, H. Larochelle, A. Beygelzimer, F. d'Alché-Buc, E. Fox, and R. Garnett (eds.), Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 32. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019.
URL
https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2019/file/b432f34c5a997c8e
7c806a895ecc5e25-Paper.pdf.
Katie Kang, Amrith Setlur, Claire Tomlin, and Sergey Levine. Deep neural networks tend to extrap-
olate predictably. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=ljwoQ3cvQh.
Dhruva Karkada, James B Simon, Yasaman Bahri, and Michael R DeWeese. Closed-form training
dynamics reveal learned features and linear structure in word2vec-like models. In The Thirty-
ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2025. URL https://open
review.net/forum?id=VS9N6q6b0k.
Kenji Kawaguchi. Deep learning without poor local minima. In D. Lee, M. Sugiyama, U. Luxburg,
I. Guyon, and R. Garnett (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 29.
Curran Associates, Inc., 2016. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2
016/file/f2fc990265c712c49d51a18a32b39f0c-Paper.pdf.
Yiwen Kou, Zixiang Chen, and Quanquan Gu.
Implicit bias of gradient descent for two-layer
relu and leaky relu networks on nearly-orthogonal data. In A. Oh, T. Naumann, A. Globerson,
K. Saenko, M. Hardt, and S. Levine (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
volume 36, pp. 30167–30221. Curran Associates, Inc., 2023. URL https://proceedings.neur
ips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/file/602f5c1b803c53b2aaf0b3864bf3383a-Paper-Con
ference.pdf.
15


Akshay Kumar and Jarvis Haupt. Directional convergence near small initializations and saddles in
two-homogeneous neural networks. Transactions on Machine Learning Research, 2024. ISSN
2835-8856. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=hfrPag75Y0.
Daniel Kunin, Allan Raventós, Clémentine Dominé, Feng Chen, David Klindt, Andrew Saxe, and
Surya Ganguli. Get rich quick: exact solutions reveal how unbalanced initializations promote
rapid feature learning. In A. Globerson, L. Mackey, D. Belgrave, A. Fan, U. Paquet, J. Tomczak,
and C. Zhang (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 37, pp. 81157–
81203. Curran Associates, Inc., 2024. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/p
aper/2024/file/94074dd5a072d28ff75a76dabed43767-Paper-Conference.pdf.
Daniel Kunin, Giovanni Luca Marchetti, Feng Chen, Dhruva Karkada, James B Simon, Michael R
DeWeese, Surya Ganguli, and Nina Miolane. Alternating gradient flows: A theory of feature
learning in two-layer neural networks. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems, 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=t7LKc0MMW6.
Thomas Laurent and James von Brecht. Deep linear networks with arbitrary loss: All local minima
are global. In Jennifer Dy and Andreas Krause (eds.), Proceedings of the 35th International
Conference on Machine Learning, volume 80 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp.
2902–2907. PMLR, 10–15 Jul 2018. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v80/laurent18a
.html.
Thien Le and Stefanie Jegelka. Training invariances and the low-rank phenomenon: beyond linear
networks. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022. URL https://open
review.net/forum?id=XEW8CQgArno.
Yann LeCun, John Denker, and Sara Solla. Optimal brain damage. In D. Touretzky (ed.), Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 2. Morgan-Kaufmann, 1989. URL https:
//proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/1989/file/6c9882bbac1c7093bd250418
81277658-Paper.pdf.
Zhiyuan Li, Yuping Luo, and Kaifeng Lyu. Towards resolving the implicit bias of gradient descent
for matrix factorization: Greedy low-rank learning. In International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2021. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=AHOs7Sm5H7R.
Yuhan Helena Liu, Aristide Baratin, Jonathan Cornford, Stefan Mihalas, Eric Todd SheaBrown, and
Guillaume Lajoie. How connectivity structure shapes rich and lazy learning in neural circuits. In
The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024. URL https://open
review.net/forum?id=slSmYGc8ee.
Haihao Lu and Kenji Kawaguchi. Depth creates no bad local minima, 2017. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/1702.08580.
Tao Luo, Zhi-Qin John Xu, Zheng Ma, and Yaoyu Zhang. Phase diagram for two-layer relu neural
networks at infinite-width limit. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 22(71):1–47, 2021. URL
http://jmlr.org/papers/v22/20-1123.html.
Kaifeng Lyu, Zhiyuan Li, Runzhe Wang, and Sanjeev Arora. Gradient descent on two-layer nets:
Margin maximization and simplicity bias. In M. Ranzato, A. Beygelzimer, Y. Dauphin, P.S. Liang,
and J. Wortman Vaughan (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 34,
pp. 12978–12991. Curran Associates, Inc., 2021. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/pap
er_files/paper/2021/file/6c351da15b5e8a743a21ee96a86e25df-Paper.pdf.
Hartmut Maennel, Olivier Bousquet, and Sylvain Gelly. Gradient descent quantizes relu network
features, 2018. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.08367.
Pierre Marion and Raphaël Berthier. Leveraging the two-timescale regime to demonstrate conver-
gence of neural networks. In A. Oh, T. Naumann, A. Globerson, K. Saenko, M. Hardt, and
S. Levine (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 36, pp. 64996–
65029. Curran Associates, Inc., 2023. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/p
aper/2023/file/cd062f8003e38f55dcb93df55b2683d6-Paper-Conference.pdf.
16


Hancheng Min, Enrique Mallada, and Rene Vidal. Early neuron alignment in two-layer reLU net-
works with small initialization. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Represen-
tations, 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=QibPzdVrRu.
Chris Mingard, Guillermo Valle-Pérez, Joar Skalse, and Ard A. Louis. Is sgd a bayesian sampler?
well, almost. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 22(79):1–64, 2021. URL http://jmlr.org
/papers/v22/20-676.html.
Chris Mingard, Henry Rees, Guillermo Valle-Pérez, and Ard A Louis. Deep neural networks have
an inbuilt occam’s razor. Nature Communications, 16(1):220, 2025. doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/
s41467-024-54813-x. URL https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-54813-x.
Philipp Misof, Pan Kessel, and Jan E Gerken. Equivariant neural tangent kernels. In Aarti Singh,
Maryam Fazel, Daniel Hsu, Simon Lacoste-Julien, Felix Berkenkamp, Tegan Maharaj, Kiri
Wagstaff, and Jerry Zhu (eds.), Proceedings of the 42nd International Conference on Machine
Learning, volume 267 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 44470–44503. PMLR,
13–19 Jul 2025. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v267/misof25a.html.
Emin Orhan and Xaq Pitkow. Skip connections eliminate singularities. In International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2018. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=HkwBEM
WCZ.
Scott Pesme and Nicolas Flammarion. Saddle-to-saddle dynamics in diagonal linear networks. In
A. Oh, T. Naumann, A. Globerson, K. Saenko, M. Hardt, and S. Levine (eds.), Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, volume 36, pp. 7475–7505. Curran Associates, Inc., 2023. URL
https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/file/17a9ab4190289f0e1504
bbb98d1d111a-Paper-Conference.pdf.
Leonardo Petrini, Francesco Cagnetta, Eric Vanden-Eijnden, and Matthieu Wyart. Learning sparse
features can lead to overfitting in neural networks. In S. Koyejo, S. Mohamed, A. Agarwal,
D. Belgrave, K. Cho, and A. Oh (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
volume 35, pp. 9403–9416. Curran Associates, Inc., 2022. URL https://proceedings.neurip
s.cc/paper_files/paper/2022/file/3d3a9e085540c65dd3e5731361f9320e-Paper-Confe
rence.pdf.
Mary Phuong and Christoph H Lampert.
The inductive bias of relu networks on orthogonally
separable data. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2021. URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=krz7T0xU9Z_.
Alexandra Maria Proca, Clémentine Carla Juliette Dominé, Murray Shanahan, and Pedro A. M.
Mediano. Learning dynamics in linear recurrent neural networks. In Aarti Singh, Maryam Fazel,
Daniel Hsu, Simon Lacoste-Julien, Felix Berkenkamp, Tegan Maharaj, Kiri Wagstaff, and Jerry
Zhu (eds.), Proceedings of the 42nd International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 267
of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 49860–49902. PMLR, 13–19 Jul 2025. URL
https://proceedings.mlr.press/v267/proca25a.html.
Nasim Rahaman, Aristide Baratin, Devansh Arpit, Felix Draxler, Min Lin, Fred Hamprecht, Yoshua
Bengio, and Aaron Courville. On the spectral bias of neural networks. In Kamalika Chaudhuri
and Ruslan Salakhutdinov (eds.), Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Machine
Learning, volume 97 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 5301–5310. PMLR,
09–15 Jun 2019. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v97/rahaman19a.html.
Maria Refinetti, Alessandro Ingrosso, and Sebastian Goldt. Neural networks trained with SGD
learn distributions of increasing complexity. In Andreas Krause, Emma Brunskill, Kyunghyun
Cho, Barbara Engelhardt, Sivan Sabato, and Jonathan Scarlett (eds.), Proceedings of the 40th
International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 202 of Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research, pp. 28843–28863. PMLR, 23–29 Jul 2023. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/
v202/refinetti23a.html.
Riccardo Rende, Federica Gerace, Alessandro Laio, and Sebastian Goldt. A distributional simplicity
bias in the learning dynamics of transformers. In A. Globerson, L. Mackey, D. Belgrave, A. Fan,
U. Paquet, J. Tomczak, and C. Zhang (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
17


volume 37, pp. 96207–96228. Curran Associates, Inc., 2024. URL https://proceedings.neur
ips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/file/ae6c81a39079ddeb88b034b6ef18c7fe-Paper-Con
ference.pdf.
Jirko Rubruck, Jan Philipp Bauer, Andrew M Saxe, and Christopher Summerfield. Early learning
of the optimal constant solution in neural networks and humans. In 8th Annual Conference on
Cognitive Computational Neuroscience, 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=6X
yu486HRh.
Roei Sarussi, Alon Brutzkus, and Amir Globerson. Towards understanding learning in neural net-
works with linear teachers. In Marina Meila and Tong Zhang (eds.), Proceedings of the 38th
International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 139 of Proceedings of Machine Learn-
ing Research, pp. 9313–9322. PMLR, 18–24 Jul 2021. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/
v139/sarussi21a.html.
Andrew M Saxe, James L McClelland, and Surya Ganguli. Exact solutions to the nonlinear dynam-
ics of learning in deep linear neural networks. In The Second International Conference on Learn-
ing Representations, 2014. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=_wzZwKpTDF_9C.
Andrew M. Saxe, James L. McClelland, and Surya Ganguli. A mathematical theory of semantic
development in deep neural networks. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 116
(23):11537–11546, 2019. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1820226116. URL https://www.pnas.org/doi
/abs/10.1073/pnas.1820226116.
Tom Schaul, Diana Borsa, Joseph Modayil, and Razvan Pascanu. Ray interference: a source of
plateaus in deep reinforcement learning, 2019. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.11455.
Jürgen Schmidhuber. Discovering neural nets with low kolmogorov complexity and high gener-
alization capability.
Neural Networks, 10(5):857–873, 1997.
ISSN 0893-6080.
doi: https:
//doi.org/10.1016/S0893-6080(96)00127-X. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S089360809600127X.
Harshay Shah, Kaustav Tamuly, Aditi Raghunathan, Prateek Jain, and Praneeth Netrapalli. The
pitfalls of simplicity bias in neural networks. In H. Larochelle, M. Ranzato, R. Hadsell, M.F.
Balcan, and H. Lin (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 33, pp.
9573–9585. Curran Associates, Inc., 2020. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_fil
es/paper/2020/file/6cfe0e6127fa25df2a0ef2ae1067d915-Paper.pdf.
Ohad Shamir. Exponential convergence time of gradient descent for one-dimensional deep linear
neural networks. In Alina Beygelzimer and Daniel Hsu (eds.), Proceedings of the Thirty-Second
Conference on Learning Theory, volume 99 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp.
2691–2713. PMLR, 25–28 Jun 2019. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v99/shamir19a.
html.
James B Simon, Maksis Knutins, Liu Ziyin, Daniel Geisz, Abraham J Fetterman, and Joshua
Albrecht.
On the stepwise nature of self-supervised learning.
In Andreas Krause, Emma
Brunskill, Kyunghyun Cho, Barbara Engelhardt, Sivan Sabato, and Jonathan Scarlett (eds.),
Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 202 of Pro-
ceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 31852–31876. PMLR, 23–29 Jul 2023.
URL
https://proceedings.mlr.press/v202/simon23a.html.
Berfin Simsek, François Ged, Arthur Jacot, Francesco Spadaro, Clement Hongler, Wulfram Gerst-
ner, and Johanni Brea. Geometry of the loss landscape in overparameterized neural networks:
Symmetries and invariances. In Marina Meila and Tong Zhang (eds.), Proceedings of the 38th
International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 139 of Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research, pp. 9722–9732. PMLR, 18–24 Jul 2021. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v1
39/simsek21a.html.
Salma Tarmoun, Guilherme Franca, Benjamin D Haeffele, and Rene Vidal.
Understanding the
dynamics of gradient flow in overparameterized linear models. In Marina Meila and Tong Zhang
(eds.), Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 139 of
Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 10153–10161. PMLR, 18–24 Jul 2021. URL
https://proceedings.mlr.press/v139/tarmoun21a.html.
18


Damien Teney, Ehsan Abbasnejad, Simon Lucey, and Anton van den Hengel. Evading the simplicity
bias: Training a diverse set of models discovers solutions with superior ood generalization. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR),
pp. 16761–16772, June 2022.
Damien Teney, Armand Mihai Nicolicioiu, Valentin Hartmann, and Ehsan Abbasnejad. Neural red-
shift: Random networks are not random functions. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 4786–4796, June 2024.
Nadav Timor, Gal Vardi, and Ohad Shamir. Implicit regularization towards rank minimization in
relu networks. In Shipra Agrawal and Francesco Orabona (eds.), Proceedings of The 34th Inter-
national Conference on Algorithmic Learning Theory, volume 201 of Proceedings of Machine
Learning Research, pp. 1429–1459. PMLR, 20 Feb–23 Feb 2023. URL https://proceedings.
mlr.press/v201/timor23a.html.
Nikita Tsoy and Nikola Konstantinov. Simplicity bias of two-layer networks beyond linearly sepa-
rable data. In Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Zico Kolter, Katherine Heller, Adrian Weller, Nuria Oliver,
Jonathan Scarlett, and Felix Berkenkamp (eds.), Proceedings of the 41st International Conference
on Machine Learning, volume 235 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 48728–
48767. PMLR, 21–27 Jul 2024. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v235/tsoy24a.html.
Zhenfeng Tu, Santiago Aranguri, and Arthur Jacot. Mixed dynamics in linear networks: Unifying
the lazy and active regimes. In A. Globerson, L. Mackey, D. Belgrave, A. Fan, U. Paquet, J. Tom-
czak, and C. Zhang (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 37, pp.
106059–106104. Curran Associates, Inc., 2024. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper
_files/paper/2024/file/bfa7d650ddfd7bd55866ee92f7a3393b-Paper-Conference.pdf.
Guillermo Valle-Perez, Chico Q. Camargo, and Ard A. Louis. Deep learning generalizes because
the parameter-function map is biased towards simple functions. In International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2019. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=rye4g3AqFm.
Aditya Varre, Gizem Yüce, and Nicolas Flammarion.
Learning in-context n-grams with trans-
formers: Sub-n-grams are near-stationary points. In Aarti Singh, Maryam Fazel, Daniel Hsu,
Simon Lacoste-Julien, Felix Berkenkamp, Tegan Maharaj, Kiri Wagstaff, and Jerry Zhu (eds.),
Proceedings of the 42nd International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 267 of Pro-
ceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 60924–60963. PMLR, 13–19 Jul 2025.
URL
https://proceedings.mlr.press/v267/varre25a.html.
Binxu Wang and Cengiz Pehlevan. An analytical theory of spectral bias in the learning dynamics
of diffusion models. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=SDhOClkyqC.
Mingze Wang and Chao Ma. Understanding multi-phase optimization dynamics and rich nonlinear
behaviors of reLU networks. In Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2023. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=konBXvt2iS.
Haikun Wei, Jun Zhang, Florent Cousseau, Tomoko Ozeki, and Shun-ichi Amari. Dynamics of
learning near singularities in layered networks. Neural Computation, 20(3):813–843, 03 2008.
ISSN 0899-7667. doi: 10.1162/neco.2007.12-06-414. URL https://doi.org/10.1162/neco.2
007.12-06-414.
Stephen Wiggins. Invariant Manifolds: Linear and Nonlinear Systems, pp. 28–70. Springer New
York, New York, NY, 2003. ISBN 978-0-387-21749-9. doi: 10.1007/0-387-21749-5_4. URL
https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-21749-5_4.
Zhengqing Wu, Berfin Simsek, and François Gaston Ged. Loss landscape of shallow reLU-like
neural networks: Stationary points, saddle escape, and network embedding. In The Thirteenth
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025. URL https://openreview.net/f
orum?id=ogKE7LcvW6.
Daniel Wurgaft, Ekdeep Singh Lubana, Core Francisco Park, Hidenori Tanaka, Gautam Reddy, and
Noah Goodman. In-context learning strategies emerge rationally. In The Thirty-ninth Annual
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2025. URL https://openreview.net/f
orum?id=bBUUOQI0N6.
19


Yu Yang, Eric Gan, Gintare Karolina Dziugaite, and Baharan Mirzasoleiman. Identifying spurious
biases early in training through the lens of simplicity bias. In Sanjoy Dasgupta, Stephan Mandt,
and Yingzhen Li (eds.), Proceedings of The 27th International Conference on Artificial Intelli-
gence and Statistics, volume 238 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 2953–2961.
PMLR, 02–04 May 2024. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v238/yang24c.html.
Yuki Yoshida and Masato Okada. Data-dependence of plateau phenomenon in learning with neu-
ral network — statistical mechanical analysis. In H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, A. Beygelzimer,
F. d'Alché-Buc, E. Fox, and R. Garnett (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems, volume 32. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper
_files/paper/2019/file/287e03db1d99e0ec2edb90d079e142f3-Paper.pdf.
O˘guz Kaan Yüksel, Rodrigo Alvarez Lucendo, and Nicolas Flammarion. Incremental learning of
sparse attention patterns in transformers. In EurIPS 2025 Workshop on Principles of Generative
Modeling (PriGM), 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=sZb2e9hM58.
Chulhee Yun, Suvrit Sra, and Ali Jadbabaie. Global optimality conditions for deep neural networks.
In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2018. URL https://openreview.n
et/forum?id=BJk7Gf-CZ.
Yaoyu Zhang, Zhongwang Zhang, Tao Luo, and Zhiqin J Xu. Embedding principle of loss landscape
of deep neural networks. In M. Ranzato, A. Beygelzimer, Y. Dauphin, P.S. Liang, and J. Wortman
Vaughan (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 34, pp. 14848–
14859. Curran Associates, Inc., 2021. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/p
aper/2021/file/7cc532d783a7461f227a5da8ea80bfe1-Paper.pdf.
Yedi Zhang, Peter E. Latham, and Andrew M Saxe. Understanding unimodal bias in multimodal
deep linear networks. In Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Zico Kolter, Katherine Heller, Adrian Weller,
Nuria Oliver, Jonathan Scarlett, and Felix Berkenkamp (eds.), Proceedings of the 41st Interna-
tional Conference on Machine Learning, volume 235 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Re-
search, pp. 59100–59125. PMLR, 21–27 Jul 2024. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v2
35/zhang24aa.html.
Yedi Zhang, Andrew M Saxe, and Peter E. Latham. When are bias-free relu networks effectively
linear networks? Transactions on Machine Learning Research, 2025a. ISSN 2835-8856. URL
https://openreview.net/forum?id=Ucpfdn66k2.
Yedi Zhang, Aaditya K Singh, Peter E. Latham, and Andrew M Saxe. Training dynamics of in-
context learning in linear attention. In Aarti Singh, Maryam Fazel, Daniel Hsu, Simon Lacoste-
Julien, Felix Berkenkamp, Tegan Maharaj, Kiri Wagstaff, and Jerry Zhu (eds.), Proceedings of
the 42nd International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 267 of Proceedings of Machine
Learning Research, pp. 76047–76087. PMLR, 13–19 Jul 2025b. URL https://proceedings.ml
r.press/v267/zhang25br.html.
Bo Zhao, Iordan Ganev, Robin Walters, Rose Yu, and Nima Dehmamy. Symmetries, flat min-
ima, and the conserved quantities of gradient flow. In The Eleventh International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2023. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=9ZpciCOunFb.
Liu Ziyin, Yizhou Xu, Tomaso Poggio, and Isaac Chuang. Parameter symmetry potentially unifies
deep learning theory, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05300.
20


Table of Contents
1
Introduction
1
2
Network Setup
3
3
Loss Landscape: Embedded Fixed Points
3
4
Invariant Manifold: Effectively Narrow Networks
5
5
Saddle-to-Saddle Dynamics
5
5.1
Linear case: timescale separation between directions
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6
5.2
Quadratic case: timescale separation between units . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
6
Implications
8
7
Discussion
9
A Additional Related Work
22
A.1
Saddle-to-saddle dynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22
A.2
Incremental learning in other settings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23
A.3
Simplicity bias
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23
B
Additional Figures
24
B.1
Learning dynamics in two-layer networks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24
B.2
Learning dynamics in deep networks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
26
B.3
The effect of skip connection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
27
C Additional Discussion
28
D Gradient Calculations
29
E
Embedded Fixed Points
30
F
Invariant Manifolds
34
F.1
Definition of invariant manifolds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
34
F.2
Proof of invariant manifolds
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
34
F.3
Expressivity on invariant manifolds
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
35
F.4
The embedded fixed points on invariant manifolds
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
36
G Dynamics of Linear Networks
38
G.1
Gradient flow equations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
38
G.2
Proof of timescale separation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
38
G.3
Fixed points of linear networks
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
39
H Dynamics of Quadratic Networks
41
H.1
Gradient flow equations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
41
H.2
Derivations for timescale separation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
41
I
Implementation Details
44
21


Appendix
A
ADDITIONAL RELATED WORK
A.1
SADDLE-TO-SADDLE DYNAMICS
Though saddle-to-saddle dynamics is a recurring phenomenon in the theory literature on learning
dynamics, many questions remain open. The only case in which saddle-to-saddle dynamics has
been proven for the full trajectory is the diagonal linear network in the limit of small initialization
(Berthier, 2023; 2026; Pesme & Flammarion, 2023). For fully-connected linear networks, saddle-
to-saddle dynamics has been shown under white input covariance and small spectral initialization
(Saxe et al., 2014; 2019; Gidel et al., 2019; Gissin et al., 2020; Li et al., 2021). Outside this setting,
the phase of visiting the first saddle from small initialization is well understood in linear networks
(Jacot et al., 2022), while visiting subsequent saddles is not. For linear self-attention, Zhang et al.
(2025b) showed saddle-to-saddle dynamics, but several phenomena remain unexplained, such as
why it occurs even when the eigenvalues thought to govern the duration of plateaus are equal, and
how increasing the number of heads affects the dynamics. While our work does not provide rigorous
proofs for the technical open questions, we offer explanatory insights into these phenomena, and
generate novel predictions on how network width, data statistics, and initialization affect saddle-to-
saddle dynamics (Section 6).
There is also some work that did not focus on saddle-to-saddle dynamics but included relevant anal-
ysis. Zhang et al. (2024) showed that multimodal deep linear networks exhibit saddle-to-saddle
dynamics. In multimodal deep linear networks with two input modalities, the saddle corresponds
to a unimodal solution that is learning to fit the output only using one of the faster-to-learn modal-
ity. Rubruck et al. (2025) showed that two-layer linear networks with bias terms in the first layer
exhibit saddle-to-saddle dynamics. Under some conditions, the first saddle corresponds to learning
an optimal constant solution (Kang et al., 2024) that is the mean of the target output regardless of
input.
Phenomena related to the timescale separation between directions in Theorem 4 have been examined
in prior studies and are often discussed as weight alignment (Ji & Telgarsky, 2019; 2020; Atanasov
et al., 2022). In a seminal work on the learning dynamics of deep linear networks (Saxe et al., 2014),
aligned weights were introduced as an ansatz, with the analysis assuming aligned initial weights
rather than deriving alignment from small isotropic initialization. This ansatz is often referred to
in the linear network literature as the “spectral initialization” assumption; see Table 1 of Tarmoun
et al. (2021) for a list of common initialization assumptions for linear networks. Later, Atanasov
et al. (2022) analyzed the early phase dynamics of two-layer linear networks with scalar output
from small isotropic initialization. They showed that the weights become increasingly aligned with
a rank-one direction in the early phase, coined as “silent alignment”. Our Theorem 4 extends the
“silent alignment” to the vector output case, and recovers it when the output is scalar. A useful
note is that fully-connected linear networks with scalar output or scalar input do not have nonzero
saddles, since a width-one network already has full expressivity. Consequently, they do not exhibit
saddle-to-saddle dynamics except for escaping the saddle at zero.
Hu et al. (2020) showed that two-layer nonlinear networks from a particular symmetric initialization
have similar dynamics to a linear model on the input in the early phase of training. Because the
network outputs zero for any input at their symmetric initialization, their analysis is related to our
analysis of linear network near small initialization (Section 5.1). Our Theorem 4 also leverages the
fact that the network output is close to zero and the dynamics is approximately linear in the weights.
Kunin et al. (2025) proposed an algorithmic framework to capture staircase learning curves in two-
layer networks. We go beyond the algorithmic level by presenting a theoretical framework that
analyzes embedded fixed points, invariant manifolds, and two different timescale separation mech-
anisms. We complement their work by addressing the question of why gradient descent dynamics
behaves similarly to their algorithm. Further, our results on fixed points and invariant manifolds are
not limited to two-layer networks; they apply to deep networks defined by Equation (1). We also
disentangle data-induced and initialization-induced saddle-to-saddle dynamics, and show that the
former leads to low-rank weights while the latter leads to sparse weights. These two mechanisms
were not distinguished in prior literature.
22


Ziyin et al. (2025) proposed a hypothesis that learning dynamics is generally symmetry-to-
symmetry. The saddle-to-saddle dynamics in our work is related to permutation symmetry between
the units. Our work makes a theoretical case for their hypothesis and identifies the conditions under
which saddle-to-saddle dynamics occurs.
A.2
INCREMENTAL LEARNING IN OTHER SETTINGS
Incremental learning, characterized by earlier phases corresponding to simpler solutions, has been
examined in several other theoretical settings. Cao et al. (2021); Ghosh et al. (2022) studied the
spectral bias in the neural tangent kernel regime. In the kernel regime, eigenfunctions with larger
eigenvalues are learned faster. This behavior differs from saddle-to-saddle dynamics, as the network
in the kernel regime neither visits saddles nor exhibits plateaus during learning. Instead, the train-
ing loss decreases throughout learning, with faster decay early in learning and slower decay later.
Outside the kernel regime, Abbe et al. (2023) studied a layer-wise training setup, in which the first
and second layers are trained separately. Marion & Berthier (2023); Berthier et al. (2024) studied
a two-timescale regime, in which the second-layer weights are trained with a much larger learning
rate than the first-layer weights. In comparison, our analysis focuses on the learning dynamics of
standard gradient descent outside the neural tangent kernel regime.
A.3
SIMPLICITY BIAS
In this paper, we focus on the dynamical simplicity bias; that is, learning increasingly complex
solutions over the course of training. A broader, longstanding body of theoretical and experimen-
tal research has explored the “stationary” simplicity bias, independent of training dynamics. Early
studies (Hinton & van Camp, 1993; Hochreiter & Schmidhuber, 1997) connected generalization to
the minimum description length of the weights, suggesting that flat minima correspond to simple
solutions that potentially generalize well. A line of work based on algorithmic information theory
(Schmidhuber, 1997; Valle-Perez et al., 2019; Dingle et al., 2018; Mingard et al., 2021; 2025; Gold-
blum et al., 2024; Teney et al., 2024) showed that standard architectures with randomly sampled
weights are biased toward input-output maps with low Kolmogorov complexity. Empirical work
(Huh et al., 2023) documented that both randomly initialized networks and trained networks exhibit
a bias toward input-output maps with low effective rank embeddings. These findings motivated a
volume hypothesis: neural networks have a simplicity bias arising from the loss landscape; specifi-
cally, the simple solutions occupy a larger volume in the weight space than the complex ones (Huh
et al., 2023; Chiang et al., 2023). Our work on dynamical simplicity bias complements the station-
ary simplicity bias literature by examining how gradient descent dynamics drives the progression of
solution complexity over time.
According to the no free lunch theorem, no single inductive bias is universally beneficial. Thus,
the simplicity bias can be either advantageous or detrimental depending on the task. Several studies
(Hermann & Lampinen, 2020; Shah et al., 2020; Petrini et al., 2022; Yang et al., 2024) have shown
that favoring simple solutions may harm generalization when the simple solution relies on simple
but spurious features, whereas more complex but robust features yield better generalization. For
example, convolutional neural networks often prefer to classify objects by texture rather than shape,
even though the classifier relying on shape can generalize better (Geirhos et al., 2019). Moreover,
studies on two-layer ReLU networks (Holzmüller & Steinwart, 2022; Tsoy & Konstantinov, 2024;
Boursier & Flammarion, 2025a;b) demonstrated that simplicity bias can sometimes cause optimiza-
tion difficulties, where the first-layer weights align with a limited set of spurious directions when
omnidirectional weights are required to reach global minima.
23


B
ADDITIONAL FIGURES
B.1
LEARNING DYNAMICS IN TWO-LAYER NETWORKS
A  Linear fully-connect network
B ReLU fully-connect network
digit 0,1
digit 0,8
digit 3,5
digit 5,7
digit 0,1
digit 0,8
digit 3,5
digit 5,7
Figure 3: Saddle-to-saddle dynamics in two-layer fully-connected linear and ReLU networks trained
for binary classification of MNIST digits. The input dimension is 28 × 28 = 784, the hidden
layer width is 1000, and the target outputs are two-dimensional one-hot vectors. The intermediate
plateau is longer when the two digits are harder to distinguish. For example, digits 3/5 are harder
to distinguish than digits 0/1. The colored curves represent the top three singular values of the first-
layer weight matrix, U ∈R1000×784. Consistent with our theory, the growth of the first and second
singular values coincides with the first and second abrupt drops in the training loss, respectively,
corresponding to the increase in the effective width. The third largest singular value is close to
zero, meaning the rank of the first-layer weight matrix is at most two, approximately. Details: The
batch size is 64. The learning rate is 0.01. The initial weights are sampled independently from
N(0, 10−12).
Table 1: Singular values of MNIST binary classification data.
Digit pair
0,1
0,8
5,7
3,5
Singular value governing the first plateau
4.20
5.21
4.13
4.62
Singular value governing the second plateau
3.90
5.21
3.26
1.38
In Figure 3, we show the learning dynamics of two-layer linear and ReLU networks trained for
binary classification of MNIST digits. Despite being noisier than the learning dynamics on synthetic
datasets, the plateaus and abrupt drops in the training loss are still pronounced. The abrupt drop in
loss also coincides with the growth of a singular value of the first-layer weight matrix, implying
that an increase in the effective width can explain the observed dynamics. We show the singular
values governing the duration of the first and second plateaus of the linear network dynamics in
Table 1, which are the first singular values of Σyx and (I −e1e⊤
1 )Σyx, respectively. Here e1 is
the first eigenvector of the matrix ΣyxΣ−1
xx Σ⊤
yx; see Lemma 6. The sizes of the singular values
approximately match the duration of the plateaus in Figure 3.
24


A  Softmax self-attention
D Tanh network
F
H
Loss curves
Weights
B Sigmoid network
C Sinusoid network
G Cubic network
E
0th-order
1st-order
2nd-order
3rd-order
Figure 4: Learning dynamics in two-layer networks with other activation functions. Each panel
shows the loss during training (top), and the first-layer weights right after the first abrupt loss drop
(bottom left) and at the end of learning (bottom right). The first-layer weights to each hidden unit are
two-dimensional and plotted as black dots. (A) The softmax self-attention model is the same as lin-
ear self-attention in Figure 1F, except for adding the softmax activation function. The training data
set is the same as that of Figure 1F. (B) Two-layer fully-connected sigmoid network, i.e., ϕ(x; u) =
sigmoid
 u⊤x

. (C) Two-layer fully-connected sinusoid network, i.e., ϕ(x; u) = sin
 u⊤x

. (D)
Two-layer fully-connected tanh network, i.e., ϕ(x; u) = tanh
 u⊤x

. (E,F,H) Two-layer fully-
connected networks with the given activation functions. (G) Two-layer fully-connected cubic net-
work, i.e., ϕ(x; u) =
 u⊤x
3. Details: Except for panel A, the training set is generated by a width-2
teacher network with the same activation function, y = ϕ(x; u∗
1) + ϕ(x; u∗
2), x ∈R2, y ∈R. The
input is sampled from N(0, I). For panels B-F, the teacher network has u∗
1 = [1, 0]⊤, u∗
2 = [0, 2]⊤.
For panels G,H, the teacher network has u∗
1 = [1, 0]⊤, u∗
2 = [0, 1]⊤. The number of training samples
is 8192. The learning rate is 0.02. The initial weights are sampled independently from N(0, 10−12)
for panels A-D, and from N(0, 0.0052) for panels E-H. The width is H = 50 for panels A-D, and
H = 10 for panels E-H.
In Figure 4, we plot the loss and weights dynamics for two-layer networks with other activation
functions. If we Taylor expand ϕ(x; u) around u = 0, the lowest-order non-vanishing terms are
the 0th-order, 1st-order, 2nd-order, and 3rd-order terms for panels (A,B), (C,D), (E,F), and (G,H),
respectively. In panels (C,D), the networks develop rank-one weights in the early dynamics, since
the sinusoid and tanh activation functions are approximately linear around zero. After the first
abrupt drop in loss, our theory cannot predict the dynamics anymore because rank-one weights do
not generally correspond to embedded fixed points or invariant manifolds for sinusoid and tanh
networks. In panels (E,F,G,H), the networks undergo saddle-to-saddle dynamics, similar to the
quadratic networks studied in Section 5.2. This is because dynamics with the 2nd-order and 3rd-
order terms exhibit a timescale separation between units, as discussed at the end of Section 5. Indeed,
the weights dynamics in panels (E,F,G,H) show that there are one and two units with large weights
with the rest being near zero during the intermediate plateau and at convergence, respectively.
25


B.2
LEARNING DYNAMICS IN DEEP NETWORKS
A Linear fully-connect net
B Linear convolutional net
C ReLU fully-connect net
E Linear transformer
F Quadratic net
D ReLU convolutional net
Loss curves
Weights
Figure 5: Learning dynamics in deep networks. Each panel shows the loss over training time (top),
and the first-layer weights right after the first abrupt loss drop (bottom left) and at the end of learning
(bottom right). The first-layer weights to each hidden unit are two-dimensional and plotted as black
dots. The training sets in panels A,C,E are the same as those in Figure 1(B,D,F). The training sets
in panels B,D,F split the scalar output in Figure 1(C,E,G) into a two-dimensional vector output. (A)
Three-layer linear fully-connected network. (B) The network has a convolutional linear layer as
the first hidden layer and a fully-connected linear layer as the second hidden layer. (C) Three-layer
ReLU fully-connected network. (D) The network has a convolutional ReLU layer as the first hidden
layer and a fully-connected ReLU layer as the second hidden layer. (E) One-layer linear transformer,
consisting of one linear self-attention layer and two fully-connected linear layers. (F) The network
has a fully-connected layer with quadratic activation as the first hidden layer and a fully-connected
linear layer as the second hidden layer. Details: The number of training samples is 8192. The
learning rate is 0.02. The initial weights are sampled independently from N(0, 0.0052) for panels
A-E, and from N(0, 0.052) for panel F. The width is H = 50 for panels A-D, and H = 10 for
panels E,F.
In Figure 5, we present the learning dynamics of deep networks with various architectures, in com-
parison with the two-layer architectures in Figure 1. Similar to two-layer networks, the deep net-
works also exhibit saddle-to-saddle dynamics. The weight structures indicate that the visited saddles
in panels (A,B) correspond to the embedded fixed points in Equation (7), those in panels (C,D) cor-
respond to Equation (6), and those in panels (E,F) correspond to Equation (5). The effective width
of the first layer during the intermediate plateau and at convergence is one and two, respectively.
We let the output of the networks in Figure 5(B,D,F) be two-dimensional, rather than one-
dimensional as in Figure 1(C,E,G), due to considerations of expressivity. If the output is one-
dimensional, the second fully-connected linear layer can achieve full expressivity with an effective
width of one. This would make the second saddle-to-saddle transition (if there is one) different
from the first: in the first transition, the effective width of both layers increases by one, whereas in
the second transition only the effective width of the first layer increases. We leave this interesting
problem to future research.
26


B.3
THE EFFECT OF SKIP CONNECTION
B Deep linear fully-connect net C Deep ReLU fully-connect net
A Schematic of the architectures
FC layer
FC layer
FC layer
Input
Output
no skip
FC layer
FC layer
FC layer
Input
Output
skip 1
FC layer
FC layer
FC layer
Input
Output
skip 2
linear time axis
logarithm time axis
Figure 6: Saddle-to-saddle dynamics in deep fully-connected networks with skip connections. (A)
Schematic of three four-layer fully-connected networks: one with no skip connection, one with a
skip connection that skips one layer, and one with a skip connection that skips two layers. The three
linear networks are defined in Equation (18). (B,C) Loss curves of linear and ReLU networks with
skip connections, plotted using linear time (top row) and logarithmic time (bottom row) axes. All
networks exhibit saddle-to-saddle dynamics, with the network that skips more layers learning faster.
With small initialization, shallower linear networks learn faster (Saxe et al., 2019). In the network
without a skip connection, all four layers must escape the zero fixed point and learn. In the network
that skips one layer, the second-layer weights can remain near zero while the other three layers
escape the zero fixed point and learn, yielding dynamics similar to a three-layer network. In the
network that skips two layers, only the first and last layers need to learn, yielding dynamics similar
to a two-layer network.
In Figure 6, the networks are four-layer linear networks with skip connections, defined as
no skip: f(x) = W4W3W2W1x
(18a)
skip 1: f(x) = W4W3(W2W1x + W1x)
(18b)
skip 2: f(x) = W4(W3W2W1x + W1x)
(18c)
where the input x ∈R2 and the weights W4 ∈R2×50, W3, W2 ∈R50×50, W1 ∈R50×2.
All three networks defined in Equation (18) exhibit saddle-to-saddle dynamics when trained from
small initialization, with the network that skips more layers learning faster. This is because weights
in the skipped layers can remain near zero while weights in other layers escape the zero fixed point
and learn. When the skipped layers are effectively unused, the network behaves like a shallower net-
work consisting only of the unskipped layers and exhibits saddle-to-saddle dynamics. Furthermore,
since shallower linear networks learn faster (Saxe et al., 2019), networks that skip more layer also
learn faster. The dynamics in ReLU networks with skip connections is similar.
27


C
ADDITIONAL DISCUSSION
ReLU activation function. Because the ReLU activation function is piece-wise linear, we con-
jecture that ReLU networks trained from small initialization have a timescale separation between
different directions, similar to the mechanism in linear networks. Indeed, prior studies have found
that the direction that maximizes the correlation with the output grows the fastest, that is the direction
arg max∥u∥=1⟨ReLU(u⊤x)y⟩. This was known as quantizing (Maennel et al., 2018), condensing
(Luo et al., 2021), random feature amplification (Frei et al., 2023a), and studied in many other theo-
retical works on the learning dynamics of ReLU networks (Le & Jegelka, 2022; Petrini et al., 2022;
Timor et al., 2023; Kou et al., 2023; Glasgow, 2024; Min et al., 2024).
Reduction of high-dimensional learning dynamics. The invariant manifolds in Theorem 3 can
also be useful for reducing high-dimensional learning dynamics. Whenever a network evolves near
an invariant manifold during a learning phase, Theorem 3 suggests that the full learning dynam-
ics may be well approximated by the dynamics of a narrower network. For example, if a width-2
homogeneous network has nearly proportional weights, θ1 ≈γθ2, dynamics in θ1 and θ2 may
be well approximated by lower-dimensional dynamics only in θ1. Many prior analyses have suc-
cessfully reduced high-dimensional learning dynamics for individual architectures using a similar
idea, including deep linear networks (Saxe et al., 2014; 2019; Advani et al., 2020), ReLU networks
(Phuong & Lampert, 2021; Sarussi et al., 2021; Lyu et al., 2021; Frei et al., 2023b; Tsoy & Kon-
stantinov, 2024; Zhang et al., 2025a), and self-attention (Zhang et al., 2025b; Yüksel et al., 2025).
Distributed or localized features. Identifying which type of fixed points a network visits among
Equations (4) to (7) may be of interest to representation learning (Hinton et al., 1986; Elhage et al.,
2022) and pruning problems (LeCun et al., 1989; Frankle & Carbin, 2019; Gromov et al., 2025). The
fixed points described by Equations (4), (6) and (7) correspond to networks with distributed, nonlo-
cal, or polysemantic features, while fixed points described by Equation (5) correspond to networks
with localized or monosemantic features. Networks with localized features and simplicity bias can
be more easily pruned. In Section 5, we showed that the timescale separation between directions due
to data distribution gives rise to distributed features, while the timescale separation between units
gives rise to localized features.
Technical future directions. The goal of this paper is to establish a theoretical framework and vali-
date its predictive power. To serve this goal, we have prioritized the completeness of the framework,
at times relying on heuristics and empirical observations. Several interesting technical questions
remain open. First, how close must a point in weight space be to an invariant manifold in order to
approach a fixed point on that manifold before leaving the manifold? Quantifying this could enable
rigorous proofs of saddle-to-saddle dynamics in a wider range of architectures, extending beyond di-
agonal linear networks (Berthier, 2023; 2026; Pesme & Flammarion, 2023). Second, is the sequence
of saddles visited during training Markovian? That is, can the next saddle be inferred solely from
the current one, independent of earlier ones? In dynamical systems literature, it has been shown that
certain saddle-to-saddle transitions are non-Markovian (Bakhtin, 2011).
28


D
GRADIENT CALCULATIONS
We write down the gradients of the weights θ1:H for the network defined in Equation (1). We denote
f(x) = gout(ζ),
where ζ =
H
X
i=1
ϕ(gin(x); ui)vi.
(19)
The variables have dimensionality
u ∈RNu, v ∈RNv, ϕ(gin(x); u) ∈RNϕ×Nv, ζ ∈RNϕ.
Recall that the training loss is defined as
L = 1
P
P
X
µ=1
ℓµ = 1
P
P
X
µ=1
ℓ(yµ, f(xµ)).
(20)
Using the chain rule, the gradient flow dynamics of vi can be written
˙vi = −∂L
∂vi
= −1
P
P
X
µ=1
 ∂ζ
∂vi
⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ(gin(xµ); ui)⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ .
(21)
The gradient flow dynamics of ui involves matrix-by-vector derivatives, which generally require
tensor notations. To avoid introducing tensor notations, we instead write the gradient entrywise, for
n = 1, · · · , Nu,
˙ui,n = −∂L
∂ui,n
= −1
P
P
X
µ=1
 ∂ζ
∂ui,n
⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
v⊤
i
∂ϕ(gin(xµ); ui)⊤
∂ui,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ .
(22)
29


E
EMBEDDED FIXED POINTS
Here we prove Theorem 1.
Proof. We have that θ∗
1:(H−1) is a fixed point of the gradient flow dynamics of the width-(H −1)
network, that is
˙θi = −∂L
∂θi

θi=θ∗
i
= −
∂L
∂f ∗(x)
∂f ∗(x)
∂θ∗
i
= 0,
i = 1, · · · , H −1.
(23)
We denote
ζ∗=
H−1
X
j=1
ϕ(gin(x); u∗
j)v∗
j .
(24)
The input-output map the width-(H −1) network is f ∗(x) = gout(ζ∗).
We prove the four statements one by one.
(i) For any ϕ, we analyze Equation (4).
First, the width-H network implements the same input-output map as the width-(H −1)
network, that is f(x) = gout(ζ) where
ζ =
H
X
j=1
ϕ(gin(x); uj)vj
= ϕ(gin(x); uH)vH + ϕ(gin(x); ui)vi +
H−1
X
j=1,j̸=i
ϕ(gin(x); uj)vj
= ϕ(gin(x); u∗
i )γvv∗
i + ϕ(gin(x); u∗
i )(1 −γv)v∗
i +
H−1
X
j=1,j̸=i
ϕ(gin(x); u∗
j)v∗
j
=
H−1
X
j=1
ϕ(gin(x); u∗
j)v∗
j
= ζ∗.
Second, we calculate the gradients of the weights in the width-H network. For the units with
unmodified weights, the gradients are the same as the width-(H −1) network
˙θj = −∂L
∂f(x)
∂f(x)
∂θj
= −
∂L
∂f ∗(x)
∂f ∗(x)
∂θ∗
j
= 0,
j = 1, · · · , H −1, j ̸= i.
For the i-th unit, the gradients can be expressed using Equations (21) and (22) as
˙vi = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ(gin(xµ); ui)⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ(gin(xµ); u∗
i )⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ∗= ˙v∗
i = 0,
˙ui,n = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
v⊤
i
∂ϕ(gin(xµ); ui)⊤
∂ui,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ
= −(1 −γv) 1
P
P
X
µ=1
v∗
i
⊤∂ϕ(gin(xµ); u∗
i )⊤
∂ui,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ∗
= (1 −γv) ˙u∗
i,n
= 0,
n = 1, · · · , Nu.
30


Similarly, for the new H-th unit, the gradients are
˙vH = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ(gin(xµ); u∗
i )⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ∗= ˙v∗
i = 0,
˙uH,n = −γv
1
P
P
X
µ=1
v∗
i
⊤∂ϕ(gin(xµ); u∗
i )⊤
∂ui,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ∗= γv ˙u∗
i,n = 0,
n = 1, · · · , Nu.
(ii) For ϕ such that ∀z, ϕ(z; uzero) = 0, we analyze Equation (5).
The width-H network implements the same input-output map as the width-(H −1) network,
that is f(x) = gout(ζ) where
ζ =
H
X
i=1
ϕ(gin(x); ui)vi = ϕ(gin(x); uzero)0 +
H−1
X
j=1
ϕ(gin(x); u∗
j)v∗
j = ζ∗.
Because the first (H −1) units have unmodified weights, their gradients are the same as those
in the width-(H −1) network, which are zero. For the new H-th unit, the gradients can be
expressed using Equations (21) and (22) as
˙vH = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ(gin(xµ); uzero)⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ = 0,
˙uH,n = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
0⊤∂ϕ(gin(xµ); uH)⊤
∂uH,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ = 0,
n = 1, · · · , Nu.
(iii) If ϕ(z; u) is degree-1 homogeneous in u, we analyze Equation (6).
The width-H network implements the same input-output map as the width-(H −1) network,
that is f(x) = gout(ζ) where
ζ =
H
X
j=1
ϕ(gin(x); uj)vj
= ϕ(gin(x); γuu∗
i )γvv∗
i + ϕ(gin(x); u∗
i )(1 −γuγv)v∗
i +
H−1
X
j=1,j̸=i
ϕ(gin(x); u∗
j)v∗
j
= ϕ(gin(x); u∗
i )γuγvv∗
i + ϕ(gin(x); u∗
i )(1 −γuγv)v∗
i +
H−1
X
j=1,j̸=i
ϕ(gin(x); u∗
j)v∗
j
=
H−1
X
j=1
ϕ(gin(x); u∗
j)v∗
j
= ζ∗.
Because the units with indices j = 1, · · · , H −1, j ̸= i have unmodified weights, their
gradients are the same as those in the width-(H −1) network, which are zero. For the i-th
31


unit, the gradients can be expressed using Equations (21) and (22) as
˙vi = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ(gin(xµ); u∗
i )⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ∗= ˙v∗
i = 0,
˙ui,n = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
v⊤
i
∂ϕ(gin(xµ); ui)⊤
∂ui,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ
= −1
P
P
X
µ=1
(1 −γuγv)v∗
i
⊤∂ϕ(gin(xµ); u∗
i )⊤
∂ui,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ∗
= (1 −γuγv) ˙u∗
i,n
= 0,
n = 1, · · · , Nu.
By Euler’s homogeneous function theorem, the partial derivative of the homogeneous function
ϕ(z; u) has the following property
∂ϕ(z; u)
∂un

u=γu∗
= ∂ϕ(z; u)
∂un

u=u∗
,
n = 1, · · · , Nu.
(25)
Thus, for the new H-th unit, the gradients are
˙vH = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ(gin(xµ); uH)⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ(gin(xµ); γuu∗
i )⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ∗= γu ˙v∗
i = 0,
˙uH,n = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
v⊤
H
∂ϕ(gin(xµ); uH)⊤
∂uH,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ∗
= −1
P
P
X
µ=1
γvv∗
i
⊤∂ϕ(gin(xµ); γuu∗
i )⊤
∂ui,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ∗
= γv ˙u∗
i,n = 0,
n = 1, · · · , Nu.
(iv) If ϕ(z; u) is linear in u, we analyze Equation (7).
The width-H network implements the same input-output map as the width-(H −1) network,
that is f(x) = gout(ζ) where
ζ =
H
X
j=1
ϕ(gin(x); uj)vj
= ϕ(gin(x); uH)vH +
H−1
X
j=1
ϕ(gin(x); uj)vj
= ϕ
 
gin(x);
H−1
X
i=1
γuiu∗
i
!  H−1
X
i=1
γviv∗
i
!
+
H−1
X
j=1
ϕ(gin(x); u∗
j)

v∗
j −γuj
H−1
X
j′=1
γvj′v∗
j′


=
H−1
X
i,i′=1
γuiγvi′ϕ(gin(x); u∗
i )v∗
i′ +
H−1
X
j=1
ϕ(gin(x); u∗
j)v∗
j −
H−1
X
j,j′=1
γujγvj′ϕ(gin(x); u∗
j)v∗
j′
=
H−1
X
j=1
ϕ(gin(x); u∗
j)v∗
j
= ζ∗.
32


For i = 1, · · · , H −1, the gradients can be expressed using Equations (21) and (22) as
˙vi = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ(gin(xµ); u∗
i )⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ∗= ˙v∗
i = 0,
˙ui,n = −1
P
P
X
µ=1

v∗
i −γui
H−1
X
j=1
γvjv∗
j


⊤
∂ϕ(gin(xµ); ui)⊤
∂ui,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ
= −1
P
P
X
µ=1
v∗
i
⊤∂ϕ(gin(xµ); ui)⊤
∂ui,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ −γui
H−1
X
j=1
γvj
1
P
P
X
µ=1
v∗
j
⊤∂ϕ(gin(xµ); uj)⊤
∂uj,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ
= ˙u∗
i,n + γui
H−1
X
j=1
γvj ˙u∗
j,n
= 0,
n = 1, · · · , Nu.
We leverage the degree-1 homogeneous and additive properties of linearity, which yields
ϕ
 
z;
H−1
X
i=1
γuiu∗
i
!
=
H−1
X
i=1
γuiϕ(z; u∗
i )
(26)
Thus, for the new H-th unit, the gradient for vH is
˙
vH = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ(gin(xµ); uH)⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ
= −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ
 
gin(xµ);
H−1
X
i=1
γuiu∗
i
!⊤
∂ℓµ
∂ζ∗
=
H−1
X
i=1
γui
 
−1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ(gin(xµ); u∗
i )⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ∗
!
=
H−1
X
i=1
γui ˙v∗
i
= 0.
For ϕ(z; u) that is linear in u, the partial derivative, ∂ϕ(z;u)
∂un
, is a function that does not involve
u. Thus, the gradient for uH is
˙uH,n = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
v⊤
H
∂ϕ(gin(xµ); uH)⊤
∂uH,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ
=
H−1
X
i=1
γvi
 
−1
P
P
X
µ=1
v∗
i
⊤∂ϕ(gin(xµ); uH)⊤
∂uH,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ
!
=
H−1
X
i=1
γvi ˙u∗
i,n
= 0,
n = 1, · · · , Nu.
Hence, in all the four cases, the weights of the width-H network given by Theorem 1 satisfy that the
input-output map is the same as the width-(H −1) network and the gradients are zero.
■
33


F
INVARIANT MANIFOLDS
F.1
DEFINITION OF INVARIANT MANIFOLDS
We provide the definition of invariant manifolds used in this work.
Definition 2 (Invariant manifold). A set M ⊂Rn is an invariant set under the dynamical system
˙θ = h(θ) if for any θ(0) = θ0 ∈M we have θ(t) ∈M for all t ∈R. An invariant set M ⊂Rn is
an invariant manifold if M has the structure of a differentiable manifold.
In this work, we focus on a particular class of invariant manifolds defined via the constraint Φ(θ) =
0; see Theorem 3. For defining invariant manifolds in more generality, we refer the readers to
Wiggins (2003).
If a trajectory on an invariant manifold connects two distinct fixed points as t →±∞, it is called a
heteroclinic orbit in the dynamical systems literature (Bakhtin, 2011). The saddle-to-saddle transi-
tions in our setup can be viewed as heteroclinic orbits.
F.2
PROOF OF INVARIANT MANIFOLDS
We here prove Theorem 3.
Proof. We prove the four statements one by one. Recall that θi is defined in Equation (1), which is
the stacked second-layer and first-layer weights in the i-th unit
θi =

vi
ui

.
(i) For any ϕ, two units have equal weights: θi = θj.
We write down the dynamics of the difference (θi −θj) and substitute in θi = θj. Using
Equation (21), the dynamics of (vi −vj) is given by
d
dt(vi −vj) = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
 ϕ(gin(xµ); ui) −ϕ(gin(xµ); uj)
⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ = 0.
Using Equation (22), the dynamics of (ui,n −uj,n) for n = 1, · · · , Nu is given by
d
dt(ui,n −uj,n) = −1
P
P
X
µ=1

v⊤
i
∂ϕ(gin(xµ); ui)⊤
∂ui,n
−v⊤
j
∂ϕ(gin(xµ); uj)⊤
∂uj,n
 ∂ℓµ
∂ζ = 0.
(ii) If ∃uzero such that ∀z, ϕ(z; uzero) = 0, a unit has zero weights: vi = 0, ui = uzero.
Substituting vi = 0, ui = uzero into Equations (21) and (22), we obtain
˙vi = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ(gin(xµ); uzero)⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ = 0,
˙ui,n = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
0⊤∂ϕ(gin(xµ); ui)⊤
∂ui,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ = 0,
n = 1, · · · , Nu.
(iii) If ϕ(z; u) is homogeneous in u, two units have proportional weights: θi = γθj, γ ∈F.
34


Using Equation (21) and the degree-1 homogeneous property, ∀γ ∈F, ϕ(z; γu) = γϕ(z; u),
the dynamics of (vi −γvj) is given by
d
dt(vi −γvj) = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
 ϕ(gin(xµ); ui) −γϕ(gin(xµ); uj)
⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ
= −1
P
P
X
µ=1
 ϕ(gin(xµ); ui) −ϕ(gin(xµ); γuj)
⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ
= 0.
Using Equations (22) and (25), the dynamics of (ui,n −γuj,n) for n = 1, · · · , Nu is given by
d
dt(ui,n −γuj,n) = −1
P
P
X
µ=1

v⊤
i
∂ϕ(gin(xµ); ui)⊤
∂ui,n
−γv⊤
j
∂ϕ(gin(xµ); uj)⊤
∂uj,n
 ∂ℓµ
∂ζ
= −1
P
P
X
µ=1
(vi −γvj)⊤∂ϕ(gin(xµ); ui)⊤
∂ui,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ
= 0.
(iv) If ϕ(z; u) is linear in u, any number of units have linear dependence: θi = P
j̸=i γjθj.
We leverage the degree-1 homogeneous and additive properties of linearity, which yields
ϕ(z; ui) −
X
j̸=i
γjϕ(z; uj) = ϕ

z; ui −
X
j̸=i
γjuj


(27)
Using Equations (21) and (27), we obtain the dynamics of

vi −P
j̸=i γjvj

d
dt

vi −
X
j̸=i
γjvj

= −1
P
P
X
µ=1

ϕ(gin(xµ); ui) −
X
j̸=i
γjϕ(gin(xµ); uj)


⊤
∂ℓµ
∂ζ
= −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ

gin(xµ); ui −
X
j̸=i
γjuj


⊤
∂ℓµ
∂ζ
= −1
P
P
X
µ=1
ϕ(gin(xµ); 0)⊤∂ℓµ
∂ζ
= 0.
For ϕ(z; u) that is linear in u, the partial derivative ∂ϕ(z;u)
∂un
is a function that does not involve
u. Thus, using Equation (22), we obtain the dynamics of

ui,n −P
j̸=i γjuj,n

for n =
1, · · · , Nu
d
dt

ui,n −
X
j̸=i
γjuj,n

= −1
P
P
X
µ=1

vi −
X
j̸=i
γjvj


⊤
∂ϕ(gin(xµ); ui)⊤
∂ui,n
∂ℓµ
∂ζ = 0.
■
F.3
EXPRESSIVITY ON INVARIANT MANIFOLDS
When the weights of a network lie on an invariant manifolds, its input-output map is expressible by
the architecture with fewer units than its actual width.
35


(i) For any ϕ, when two units have equal weights, θi = θj, we can remove the i-th unit and
multiply vj by 2, obtaining a network with one less unit that expresses the same input-output
map.
(ii) For ϕ such that ∀z, ϕ(z; uzero) = 0, when a unit has zero weights, vi = 0, ui = uzero,
we can just remove this unit, obtaining a network with one less unit that expresses the same
input-output map.
(iii) For ϕ(z; u) that is degree-1 homogeneous in u, when two units have proportional weights,
θi = γθj, we can remove the i-th unit and multiply vj by (1 + γ2), obtaining a network with
one less unit that expresses the same input-output map.
(iv) For ϕ(z; u) that is linear in u, when there is a linear dependence θi = P
j̸=i γjθj, we can
remove the i-th unit and modify the second-layer weights in all remaining units as follows
vnew
j
= vj + γj
X
j′̸=i
γj′vj′.
(28)
This new width-(H−1) network expresses the same input-output map as the original width-H
network
H
X
j=1,j̸=i
ϕ(gin(x); uj)vnew
j
=
X
j̸=i
ϕ(gin(x); uj)

vj + γj
X
j′̸=i
γj′vj′


=
X
j̸=i
ϕ(gin(x); uj)vj + ϕ

gin(x);
X
j̸=i
γjuj

X
j′̸=i
γj′vj′
=
X
j̸=i
ϕ(gin(x); uj)vj + ϕ (gin(x); ui) vi
=
H
X
j=1
ϕ(gin(x); uj)vj.
F.4
THE EMBEDDED FIXED POINTS ON INVARIANT MANIFOLDS
The set of embedded fixed points lying on the invariant manifolds given in Theorem 3 is a subset
of the embedded fixed points given in Theorem 1. Here we specify the subset of embedded fixed
points that lie on invariant manifolds.
(i) When γv = 1/2 in Equation (4), the embedded fixed point has uH = ui = u∗
i , vH = vi =
v∗
i /2, which is on the invariant manifold of θH = θi in Theorem 3(i).
(ii) For ϕ such that ∀z, ϕ(z; uzero) = 0, it is clear that uH = uzero, vH = 0 is on the invariant
manifold in Theorem 3(ii).
(iii) For ϕ(z; u) that is degree-1 homogeneous in u, when γv = γu/(1 + γ2
u) in Equation (6), the
embeded fixed point has
uH = γuui, vH =
γv
1 −γuγv
vi = γuvi,
(29)
which is on the invariant manifold of θH = γuθi in Theorem 3(iii).
(iv) For ϕ(z; u) that is linear in u, let us first rearrange Equation (7) by substituting vi = v∗
i −
γuivH into vH = PH−1
i=1 γviv∗
i and obtaining an expression of vH in terms of {vi}H−1
i=1
vH =
H−1
X
i=1
γvi(vi + γuivH)
⇒
vH =
1
1 −PH−1
j=1 γvjγuj
H−1
X
i=1
γvivi.
(30)
36


When γvi = γui/(1 + PH−1
j=1 γ2
ui) in Equation (7), the embedded fixed point has
uH =
H−1
X
i=1
γuiui,
(31a)
vH =
1
1 −PH−1
j=1 γvjγuj
H−1
X
i=1
γvivi
=
1
1 −PH−1
j=1
γ2uj
1+PH−1
k=1 γ2uk
H−1
X
i=1
γui
1 + PH−1
j=1 γ2uj
vi
=
H−1
X
i=1
γuivi,
(31b)
which is on the invariant manifold of θH = PH−1
i=1 γuiθi in Theorem 3(iv).
37


G
DYNAMICS OF LINEAR NETWORKS
G.1
GRADIENT FLOW EQUATIONS
We derive the gradient flow equations given in Equation (9).
For i = 1, · · · , H, the gradient flow dynamics on squared loss, ℓ(y, ˆy) = 1
2∥y −ˆy∥2
2, is given by
˙vi = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
∂L
∂f(xµ)
∂f(xµ)
∂vi
= 1
P
P
X
µ=1
(yµ −W zµ)z⊤
µ ui
=
 
1
P
P
X
µ=1
yµz⊤
µ −W 1
P
P
X
µ=1
zµz⊤
µ
!
ui,
˙ui = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
∂L
∂f(xµ)
∂f(xµ)
∂ui
= 1
P
P
X
µ=1
zµ(yµ −W zµ)⊤vi
=
 
1
P
P
X
µ=1
zµy⊤
µ −1
P
P
X
µ=1
zµz⊤
µ W ⊤
!
vi.
Recall that the data statistics are defined as
Σyz = 1
P
P
X
µ=1
yµz⊤
µ ,
Σzz = 1
P
P
X
µ=1
zµz⊤
µ .
Substituting in the data statistics, we obtain the gradient flow equations in Equation (9), which are
˙vi = (Σyz −W Σzz) ui,
˙ui = (Σyz −W Σzz)⊤vi,
i = 1, · · · , H.
G.2
PROOF OF TIMESCALE SEPARATION
We here prove Theorem 4, that is the timescale separation between directions in a linear dynamical
system.
Proof. The linear dynamical system in Equation (10) can be written as
˙θi = Mθi,
where M =
 0
Σyx
Σ⊤
yx
0

, θi =

vi
ui

.
(32)
The symmetric matrix M has D positive eigenvalues, D negative eigenvalues, and (Nv +Nu −2D)
zero eigenvalues. The nonzero eigenvalues are the singular values of Σyx and their negative
M

qk
rk

= sk

qk
rk

,
M

qk
−rk

= −sk

qk
−rk

,
k = 1, · · · , D.
(33)
The exact time-course solution to Equation (10) is
θi(t) =

vi
ui

(t) =
D
X
k=1

ckieskt

qk
rk

+ bkie−skt

qk
−rk

+ ξi,
i = 1, · · · , H,
(34)
38


where the constants cki, bki are projections of the initial weights onto the eigenvectors with nonzero
eigenvalues, and ξi is the initial weights projected onto the eigenspace with zero eigenvalue
cki = 1
2
 q⊤
k vi(0) + r⊤
k ui(0)

,
(35a)
bki = 1
2
 q⊤
k vi(0) −r⊤
k ui(0)

,
(35b)
ξi = θi(0) −
D
X
k=1

cki

qk
rk

+ bki

qk
−rk

.
(35c)
Recall that the projection matrix P , defined in Equation (11), corresponds to the rank-r subspace
spanned by the top r singular vectors. The projection of the weights on this subspace has ℓ2 norm
∥P θi∥=

r
X
k=1
ckieskt

qk
rk
 = es1t
v
u
u
t2
r
X
k=1
c2
ki = es1t∥P θi(0)∥
(36)
The time it takes for ∥P θi∥to reach O(1) is
T = 1
s1
ln
1
∥P θi(0)∥.
(37)
At time T, the projection of the weights on the null-space of P has ℓ2 norm
∥(I −P )θi(T)∥=

D
X
k=r+1
ckieskT

qk
rk

+
D
X
k=1
bkie−skT

qk
−rk

+ ξi

=
v
u
u
t2
D
X
k=r+1
c2
kie2skT + 2
D
X
k=1
b2
kie−2skT + ∥ξi∥2
≤esr+1T
v
u
u
t2
D
X
k=r+1
c2
ki + 2
D
X
k=1
b2
ki + ∥ξi∥2
=

1
∥P θi(0)∥
 sr+1
s1
∥(I −P )θi(0)∥
=
∥(I −P )θi(0)∥
∥P θi(0)∥
 sr+1
s1
∥(I −P )θi(0)∥1−
sr+1
s1
(38)
Because the each entry of the initial weight θi(0) is independently sampled from N(0, ϵ2), the norm
is ∥θi(0)∥= O(ϵ) and the ratio ∥(I−P )θi(0)∥
∥P θi(0)∥
= O(1). Thus, we have
∥(I −P )θi(T)∥= O(1)∥(I −P )θi(0)∥1−
sr+1
s1
= O

ϵ1−
sr+1
s1

.
(39)
Hence, at time T, ∥P θi(T)∥= O(1), while ∥(I −P )θi(T)∥= O(ϵ1−sr+1/s1) is still small.
■
G.3
FIXED POINTS OF LINEAR NETWORKS
In Lemma 6, we specify all the fixed points in the linear network learning dynamics in Equation (9).
Lemma 6. Denote the eigenvectors of the symmetric matrix ΣyzΣ−1
zz Σ⊤
yz as ek ∈RNv, k =
1, · · · , Nv, arranged in descending order of their associated eigenvalues. There are at most D =
min(Nv, Nu) nonzero eigenvalues. The sufficient and necessary condition for a set of weights to be
a fixed point of the dynamics in Equation (9) is
H
X
i=1
viu⊤
i =
X
k∈Ar
eke⊤
k ΣyzΣ−1
zz ,
vi ∈span{ek}k∈Ar,
ui ∈span

Σ−1
zz Σ⊤
yzek
	
k∈Ar , (40)
where Ar is a set of indices Ar ⊆{1, 2, · · · , D}, |Ar| = r.
39


Proof. The proof can be found in the seminal work by Baldi & Hornik (1989) or follow-up work
(Kawaguchi, 2016; Lu & Kawaguchi, 2017; Yun et al., 2018; Laurent & von Brecht, 2018; Achour
et al., 2024).
■
The dynamics near a fixed points defined in Equation (40) is approximately a linear dynamical
system, for i = 1, · · · , H,
˙vi = (Σyz −W Σzz) ui ≈
 
Σyz −
X
k∈Ar
eke⊤
k ΣyzΣ−1
zz Σzz
!
ui = ˜Σyzui,
(41a)
˙ui = (Σyz −W Σzz)⊤vi ≈
 
Σyz −
X
k∈Ar
eke⊤
k ΣyzΣ−1
zz Σzz
!⊤
vi = ˜Σ⊤
yzvi.
(41b)
where eΣyz is Σyz projected onto a rank-(D −r) subspace
˜Σyz =
X
k/∈Ar
eke⊤
k Σyz.
(42)
Remark 2. When defining Ar in Lemma 6, there are
 D
r

possible choices of r indices out of D,
assuming the eigenvalues are distinct. Each choice produces a different input-output linear map.
Thus, there are
 D
r

embedded fixed points of effective width r in linear networks, if we count fixed
points by the distinct input-output maps they implement. When a linear network undergoes saddle-
to-saddle dynamics and approaches fixed points of effective width r = 0, 1, · · · , D sequentially,
determining which one of the
 D
r

fixed points it approaches at each stage is a non-trivial open
problem. Even in diagonal linear networks, specifying the sequence of visited saddles requires
non-trivial work (Berthier, 2023; 2026; Pesme & Flammarion, 2023).
40


H
DYNAMICS OF QUADRATIC NETWORKS
H.1
GRADIENT FLOW EQUATIONS
The gradient flow dynamics of Equation (13) trained on squared loss, ℓ(y, ˆy) = 1
2(y −ˆy)2, is given
by
˙vi = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
∂L
∂f(xµ)
∂f(xµ)
∂vi
= 1
P
P
X
µ=1

yµ −
H
X
j=1
vju⊤
j Zµuj

u⊤
i Zµui
= u⊤
i
 
1
P
P
X
µ=1
yµZµ
!
ui −
H
X
j=1
vju⊤
j
 
1
P
P
X
µ=1
Zµuju⊤
i Zµ
!
ui,
˙ui = −1
P
P
X
µ=1
∂L
∂f(xµ)
∂f(xµ)
∂ui
= 1
P
P
X
µ=1

yµ −
H
X
j=1
vju⊤
j Zµuj

2Zµui
= 2u⊤
i
 
1
P
P
X
µ=1
yµZµ
!
ui −2
H
X
j=1
vj
 
1
P
P
X
µ=1
Zµuiu⊤
j Zµ
!
uj.
Denote the data statistics as
ΣyZ = 1
P
P
X
µ=1
yµZµ,
ΣZZ = 1
P
P
X
µ=1
vec(Zµ)vec(Zµ)⊤.
(43)
The dynamics can be written as
˙vi = u⊤
i ΣyZui −
H
X
j=1
vj(uj ⊗uj)⊤ΣZZ(ui ⊗ui),
(44a)
˙ui = 2viΣyZui −2vi
H
X
j=1
vj(uj ⊗uj)⊤ΣZZ(ui ⊗ID),
(44b)
where ⊗denotes the Kronecker product.
H.2
DERIVATIONS FOR TIMESCALE SEPARATION
We here provide the derivations for Proposition 5, that is the timescale separation between units in
quadratic dynamics.
To reduce clutter, we omit the index i in Equation (14) for now; we will put it back when we need
it. We study the dynamics
˙v = u⊤ΣyZu,
˙u = 2vΣyZu.
(45)
Step 1: reduction to one-dimensional dynamics.
Denote the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the symmetric matrix ΣyZ as
ΣyZrk = skrk,
k = 1, · · · , D.
(46)
We change variables by projecting u onto the (orthonormal) eigenvectors of ΣyZ,
ak ≡
1
√
2r⊤
k u,
k = 1, · · · , D
(47)
41


where the factor of
√
2 is for convenience only. Since time has arbitrary unit, we can let t →t/2.
Then, the dynamics of u and v can be expressed in terms of the new coordinates a1, · · · , aD and v,
˙v =
D
X
k=1
ska2
k,
(48a)
˙ak = vskak,
k = 1, · · · , D.
(48b)
This set of equations admits a conservation law,
d
dt
 
v2 −
D
X
k=1
a2
k
!
= 2v
D
X
k=1
ska2
k −2v
D
X
k=1
ska2
k = 0.
(49)
Thus, their difference at initialization is conserved throughout training
v(t)2 −
D
X
k=1
ak(t)2 = v(0)2 −
D
X
k=1
ak(0)2.
(50)
We also notice a relationship between the ak,
dam
dak
= smam
skak
⇒
1
sm
ln am(t)
am(0) = 1
sk
ln ak(t)
ak(0).
(51)
Thus, different ak(t) can be expressed in terms of each other,
ak(t) = ak(0)
 am(t)
am(0)
sk/sm
.
(52)
Using Equations (50) and (52), and defining
πk(t) ≡ak(t)
ak(0) ,
(53)
we can express v(t) in terms of πm(t),
v(t)2 = v(0)2 +
D
X
k=1
ak(0)2 πm(t)2sk/sm −1

.
(54)
At this point m is arbitrary; we will set it to a particular value shortly. Substituting Equation (54)
into Equation (48b) and using Equation (53), we obtain a one-dimensional and separable differential
equation for πm
˙πm = vsmπm = sign
 v(0)

smπm
v
u
u
tv(0)2 +
D
X
k=1
ak(0)2 π2sk/sm
m
−1

(55)
with initial condition πm(0) = 1. Reducing the (D + 1)-dimensional dynamics in Equation (45) to
the one-dimensional separable differential equation in Equation (55) may be of independent interest.
Step 2: bounding the growth time.
Let us choose m to maximize sign(v(0)) sm. If v(0) is positive, the chosen m maximizes sm; if
it is negative the chosen m minimizes sm (and thus maximize |sm|, assuming that there are both
negative and positive eigenvalues). In either case, maxk(sk/sm) = 1. And with this maximization,
the prefactor becomes |sm|.
We are interested in the time it takes for am(t) to become large; that happens when t ∼1/am(0),
which is large for small initial conditions. The time it takes for that to happen, denoted tfinal, is
bounded by the time it takes for πm(t) to go to infinity, giving us
tfinal < t∞=
1
|sm|
Z ∞
1
dπ
π
q
v(0)2 + PD
k=1 ak(0)2(π2sk/sm −1)
.
(56)
42


So far we have ignored the dependence on unit, i. However, each i has associated with it a different
t∞. Let us use t∞,i to denote the different times, arranged in increasing order,
t∞,1 < t∞,2 < ... < t∞,H .
(57)
We will also add a subscript i to all the other variables as well. At time t∞,1, we know that
πm,1(t∞,1) is large, but what about πm,i(t∞,1) for i > 1? That is given implicitly by
tfinal =
1
|sm,i|
Z πm,i(tfinal)
1
dπ
π
q
vi(0)2 + PD
k=1 ak,i(0)2(π2sk/sm,i −1)
.
(58)
Note that sm acquired a subscript i, because it is either the maximum or minimum eigenvalue,
depending on the sign of vi(0). Rearranging terms slightly and performing a small amount of
algebra, this can be written as
Z ∞
πm,i(tfinal)
dπ
π2 p
1 + Ψi(π)
= |sm,iam,i(0)|(t∞,i −tfinal)
(59)
where
Ψi(π) ≡1
π2

vi(0)2
am,i(0)2 +
X
k̸=m
ak,i(0)2
am,i(0)2 (π2sk/sm,i −1) −1

.
(60)
We can bound the left hand side,
Z ∞
πm,i(tfinal)
dπ
π2 p
1 + Ψi(π)
<
1
p
1 + Ψmin,i
Z ∞
πm,i(tfinal)
dπ
π2 =
1
p
1 + Ψmin,i
1
πm,i(tfinal)
(61)
where Ψmin,i is the minimum value of Ψi(π). Inserting this into Equation (59) then gives us
πm,i(tfinal) <
1
p
1 + Ψmin,i
1
|sm,iam,i(0)|(t∞,i −tfinal).
(62)
To determine the size of the right hand side, we first note that because the spread in initial condi-
tions is O(1), the relative spread in the t∞,i is O(1). Second, the t∞,i scale inversely with initial
conditions (see Equation (56)), whose typical size we denote ϵ. Consequently,
|sm,iam,i(0)|(t∞,i −tfinal) ∼ϵ · 1
ϵ ∼O(1),
(63)
from which it follows that πm,i(tfinal) ∼O(1). And so, given the definition of πm(t) in Equa-
tion (53), we have am,i(tfinal) ∼ϵ. Thus, when the variables associated with one of the units
become O(1), the variables associated with all the other units are O(ϵ).
43


I
IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
Videos of the learning dynamics in Figure 1 are provided in the supplementary material.
For all models, we sample the initial weights from N(0, ϵ2) and train them with squared loss
L = 1
P
P
X
µ=1
ℓ(yµ, f(xµ)) = 1
P
P
X
µ=1
∥yµ −f(xµ)∥2
2.
(64)
Linear fully-connected network (Figure 1B).
The network is defined as
f(x) =
H
X
i=1
viu⊤
i x,
where vi, ui, x ∈R2, H = 50.
(65)
The training set {xµ, yµ}P
µ=1 is generated as
yµ = W ∗xµ,
xµ ∼N

0
0

,

1
1
1
4

.
Here P = 8192, ϵ = 10−6, and the learning rate is 0.01.
Linear convolutional network (Figure 1C).
The network is defined as
f(x) =
H
X
i=1
[vi1
vi2]

ui1
ui2
0
0
0
0
ui1
ui2

x,
where x ∈R4, H = 50.
(66)
Here the first layer is a one-dimensional convolutional layer with kernel size 2, stride 2, and padding
0. We set H = 50. The pytorch code for setting up this layer is
torch.nn.Conv1d(in_channels=1,
out_channels=50,
kernel_size=2,
stride=2,
padding=0,
dilation=1,
groups=1,
bias=False)
The training set {xµ, yµ}P
µ=1 is generated as
yµ = w∗⊤xµ,
xµ ∼N





0
0
0
0

,


1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
1




,
w∗=
1
√
5


1
1
−1
1

.
Here P = 8192, ϵ = 10−6, and the learning rate is 0.01.
ReLU fully-connected network (Figure 1D).
The network is defined as
f(x) =
H
X
i=1
viReLU(u⊤
i x),
where vi ∈R, ui, x ∈R2, H = 50.
(67)
The training set is an orthogonal input dataset used in Boursier et al. (2022, Figure 3) and Zhang
et al. (2025a, Figure 4). It contains two data points
x1 =

1
0.5

,
y1 = 1,
x2 =

−1
2

,
y2 = −1.
44


Here P = 2, ϵ = 10−6, and the learning rate is 0.01.
ReLU convolutional network (Figure 1E).
The network is defined as
f(x) =
H
X
i=1
[vi1
vi2] ReLU

ui1
ui2
0
0
0
0
ui1
ui2

x

,
where x ∈R4, H = 50,
(68)
which is the same as Equation (66) except for the ReLU activation function. The training set
{xµ, yµ}P
µ=1 is generated as
yµ = w∗⊤xµ,
w∗=
1
√
5


1
1
−1
1

.
It contains four data points
x1 =


2
0
0
0

, x2 =


0
2
0
0

, x3 =


0
0
2
√
2
0

, x4 =


0
0
0
2

.
Here P = 4, ϵ = 10−6, and the learning rate is 0.01.
Linear self-attention (Figure 1F).
The model is defined as
f(X) = X +
H
X
i=1
ViXX⊤K⊤
i QiX,
(69)
where
Vi ∈R(D+1)×(D+1), Ki, Qi ∈RR×(D+1), X ∈R(D+1)×(N+1).
(70)
Here D is the embedding dimension, N is the context length, and R is the rank of each attention
head. We train the linear self-attention model on an in-context linear regression task (Garg et al.,
2022; Zhang et al., 2025b). The training set {Xµ, yµ,q}P
µ=1 is generated as
Xµ =
 xµ,1
xµ,2
· · ·
xµ,N
xµ,q
w⊤
µ xµ,1
w⊤
µ xµ,2
· · ·
w⊤
µ xµ,N
0

,
yµ,q = w⊤
µ xµ,q,
and
xµ,n, xµ,q ∼N(0, I),
wµ ∼N(0, I),
n = 1, · · · , N, µ = 1, · · · , P.
Here D = 2, N = 32, R = 1, H = 10, P = 8192, ϵ = 0.005, and the learning rate is 0.02.
Quadratic network (Figure 1G).
The network is defined as
f(x) =
H
X
i=1
vi
 u⊤
i x
2 ,
where vi ∈R, ui, x ∈R2.
(71)
The training set {xµ, yµ}P
µ=1 is generated as
yµ =

w∗
1
⊤xµ
2
+

w∗
2
⊤xµ
2
,
xµ ∼N(0, I),
w∗
1 =

1
0

,
w∗
1 =

0
1

.
Here H = 10, P = 8192, ϵ = 0.005, and the learning rate is 0.04.
In linear self-attention and the quadratic network, we set H = 10, not 50 as the other architec-
tures, because a large H makes the plateaus very short for these two architectures. This effect was
discussed in Section 6 and validated with simulations in Figure 2A.
45