EFFICIENT PREDICTION OF LARGE PROTEIN COM-
PLEXES VIA SUBUNIT-GUIDED HIERARCHICAL RE-
FINEMENT
Chixiang Lu1, Yunhua Zhong1, Shikang Liang2, Xiaojuan Qi3, Haibo Jiang1
1Department of Chemistry, The University of Hong Kong
2School of Biomedical Sciences, The University of Hong Kong
3Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, The University of Hong Kong
u3590540@connect.hku.hk; xjqi@eee.hku.hk; hbjiang@hku.hk
ABSTRACT
State-of-the-art protein structure predictors have revolutionized structural biology,
yet quadratic memory growth with token length makes end-to-end inference im-
practical for large complexes beyond a few thousand tokens. We introduce HIER-
AFOLD, a hierarchical pipeline that exploits the modularity of large complexes via
PAE-guided (Predicted Aligned Error) subunit decomposition, targeted interface-
aware refinement, and confidence-weighted assembly. PAE maps localize rigid
intra-chain segments and sparse inter-chain interfaces, enabling joint refinement of
likely interacting subunits to capture multi-body cooperativity without increasing
memory. HIERAFOLD matches AlphaFold3 accuracy, raises success rates from
49.9% (CombFold) to 73.1% on recent PDB set. While for large complexes, it cuts
peak memory by ∼25 GB on a 4,000 token target (∼40%), successfully models
complexes with over 5,000 tokens that are Out-Of-Memory for AlphaFold3, and
raises success rates by two-fold compared with CombFold. The code is available
at https://github.com/Luchixiang/HierAFold.
1
INTRODUCTION
The advent of deep learning in protein folding prediction has transformed structural biology (Du
et al., 2021; Senior et al., 2020; Jumper et al., 2021). Models such as AlphaFold2 (Jumper et al.,
2021; Evans et al., 2021) and RoseTTAFold (Baek et al., 2021) and their successors AlphaFold3
(Abramson et al., 2024) and RoseTTAFold All-Atom (Krishna et al., 2024) now achieve unprece-
dented accuracy in modeling biomolecular interactions, including proteins, nucleic acids, and small
molecules. Despite these advances, scaling to very large complexes, typically on the order of thou-
sands of tokens, remains a major bottleneck. Memory usage in transformer-like modules (notably
triangle updates and attention) grows quadratically with token length, making end-to-end inference
prohibitive beyond ∼4–5k tokens on modern GPUs (for example, a 4,500-token complex can require
80 GB of GPU memory) (Abramson et al., 2024).
Current approaches attempt to mitigate these limits by by partitioning large tensors (Ahdritz et al.,
2024), or by predicting pair/triple complexes and relying on Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS)
(Chaslot, 2010; Bryant et al., 2022; Chim & Elofsson, 2024) or combinatorial assembly (Shor &
Schneidman-Duhovny, 2024) for global assembly. Consequently, these methods remain insuffi-
ciently scalable or miss crucial multi-body cooperativity, limiting the accuracy of the complexes
with higher-order coupling (Peng et al., 2023).
Large complexes (e.g., chaperonins, synthetic multi-enzyme circuits) are inherently modular, a prop-
erty we exploit for efficient prediction: (i) each peptide chain comprises one or more distinct folded
subunits and intrinsically disordered regions; and (ii) inter-chain interaction interfaces critical for as-
sembly are typically restricted to specific subunits and regions, and sparse relative to total residues
(Reichmann et al., 2005). This suggests that end-to-end prediction is unnecessary: one can first
predict interacting interfaces between chains and then assemble chain-level structures accordingly.
1


To make this strategy practical, we need an automatic way to detect subunits and interfaces. Pre-
dicted Aligned Error (PAE) quantifies the expected positional error of residue i after aligning on
residue j and correlates strongly with rigid-body coherence within domains and the reliability of
inter-chain interfaces (Jumper et al., 2021). Thus, we explore using PAE to drive automatic mod-
ular decomposition and interface detection. We find that coarse predictions yield PAE matrices
that naturally partition into low-variance diagonal blocks (coherent subunits) and localized low PAE
off-diagonal patches (interaction interfaces) (Fig. 1).
green
chain
violet
chain
gray
chain
blue
chain
Figure 1: Example of dividing subunits along a chain and
identifying the inter-chain interface based on the PAE ma-
trix. Each color denotes a peptide chain. The black lines in
PAE are chain borders. The orange square marks a divided
subunit in the gray chain. The red rectangle highlights the
low-PAE region at an inter-chain interacting subunit, which
is sparse relative to the total residues.
Motivated by these insights, we in-
troduce HIERAFOLD (Fig. 2), which
exploits modularity to assemble pep-
tide chains in a hierarchical, coarse-
to-fine manner, drastically reducing
memory for large protein complex
prediction.
(i) Coarse stage.
HI-
ERAFOLD generates efficient pair-
wise predictions, producing PAE ma-
trices and initial 3D structures for all
chain pairs using a distilled, few-step
diffusion model (Song et al., 2023).
From the PAE matrices, it segments
each chain into structurally coherent
subunits (dark diagonal blocks) and
identifies candidate interface subunits
(dark off-diagonal patches) across
chains.
(ii) Fine stage.
For each
chain, HIERAFOLD jointly refines
its structure with candidate inter-
face subunits from other chains, cap-
turing multi-body cooperativity and
yielding higher fidelity models while
keeping memory bounded.
(iii)
Assembly.
Finally, HIERAFOLD
merges the refined partial structures
via a confidence-aware alignment module that weights alignment by estimated confidence, priori-
tizing well-predicted residues. By using sparse subunits as cross-chain bridges and explicitly mod-
eling higher-order cooperativity among multiple subunits without inflating memory,HIERAFOLD
overcomes key limitations of prior methods.
HIERAFOLD achieves accuracy on par with AlphaFold3 for protein–protein and protein–ligand
benchmarks, while cutting GPU memory use by about 40% on large token counts. Unlike baselines
that fail with Out-Of-Memory errors, it successfully models complexes exceeding 5,000 tokens,
delivering a two-fold improvement in success rate compared to CombFold.
In summary, our contributions include:
• HIERAFOLD: a hierarchical, coarse-to-fine pipeline for large protein complexes that
keeps memory bounded while scaling beyond conventional token limits.
• PAE-guided modular decomposition: automatically segments chains into rigid subunits
and pinpoints localized inter-chain interfaces, removing the need for expert curation.
• Interface-aware refinement and assembly: jointly refines each chain with its most likely
partner subunits to capture multi-body cooperativity, and aligns chains via subunit inter-
faces using a confidence-aware module for greater robustness.
• Strong empirical performance: HIERAFOLD matches a reproduced AlphaFold3 base-
line on the benchmark, successfully models complexes exceeding 5,000 tokens, and out-
performs other methods by a large margin.
2


2
RELATED WORK
AlphaFold. Protein structure prediction has progressed from physics-based simulations to data-
driven deep learning, with AlphaFold2 (Jumper et al., 2021) establishing a landmark by leveraging
multiple sequence alignments (MSAs) and equivariant attention networks to achieve near experi-
mental accuracy. AlphaFold3 (Abramson et al., 2024) extends this paradigm to multi-chain protein
complexes, nucleic acids, and small molecular ligands through a unified diffusion-based framework
(Ho et al., 2020).
Tokens in AlphaFold3. To manage memory, AlphaFold3 represents inputs primarily at the token
level instead of the atom level. A single token corresponds to one amino acid residue, one nucleotide,
or one atom of a ligand/non-standard residue (Abramson et al., 2024).
Large Complex Prediction. The Pairformer module in AlphaFold introduces quadratic memory
growth in token number, making end-to-end inference impractical for large complexes. To mitigate
memory limits, OpenFold (Ahdritz et al., 2024) splits large tensors and processes them piecewise to
trade throughput for lower memory, but the pair representation and attention still dominate memory
and scale poorly. Beyond such tensor-level tricks, MoLPC (Bryant et al., 2022) predicts pair/triple
subunits and uses Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) (Chaslot, 2010) for global assembly, which
underperforms on heteromeric complexes due to reliance on accurate symmetry and stoichiome-
try (Shor & Schneidman-Duhovny, 2024; Chim & Elofsson, 2024). Similarly, CombFold (Shor &
Schneidman-Duhovny, 2024) assembles large complexes via combinatorial and hierarchical assem-
bly, but depends on high-quality predefined subunits, often requiring expert curation and yielding
incomplete or biased models. Because these pipelines emphasize pairwise interactions, they also
miss crucial multi-body cooperativity, effects from multiple interacting chains, limiting accuracy on
complexes with higher order coupling (Peng et al., 2023).
Meanwhile, docking-based approaches that rely on pairwise protein–protein docking (Inbar et al.,
2003; Esquivel-Rodr´ıguez et al., 2012; Kuzu et al., 2014) are more memory-friendly but lag behind
deep learning methods in accuracy. Consequently, current approaches remain insufficiently scalable
or accurate, overly specialized, or insufficiently automated for modeling large complexes.
Protein Subunit/Domain Segmentation. Protein domain segmentation has been studied, with two
primary categories of methods: (i) Domain annotation databases, such as CATH (Sillitoe et al.,
2021) and ECOD (Schaeffer et al., 2017), which provide curated evolutionary classifications and
domain boundaries based on sequence and structure similarity. (ii) Computational prediction meth-
ods, including sequence-based predictor (Zhu et al., 2023), structure-based predictor (Zhang et al.,
2023; Yu et al., 2022), deep-learning approaches (Lau et al., 2023; Wells et al., 2024). (iii) Large-
scale efforts, such TED, which annotate structural domains across the protein universe by integrating
these advanced tools (Lau et al., 2024). However, these approaches require additional inference-time
computation. What’s more, they are optimized for evolutionary domain definitions and do not iden-
tify cross-chain interface subunits.
3
PRELIMINARIES
Confidence matrices. AlphaFold family models output complementary confidence estimates to
assess prediction reliability: (i) pLDDT (predicted Local Distance Difference Test) provides per-
residue accuracy estimates (Mariani et al., 2013); (ii) pTM (predicted TM-score) approximates the
expected TM-score to the unknown native structure, measuring overall fold accuracy; (iii) ipTM
(interface predicted TM-score) quantifies the relative placement of chains or interacting components.
In AlphaFold3, a weighted combination of ipTM, pTM, and clash penalties is used to rank multiple
samples.
Predicted Aligned Error (PAE). The Predicted Aligned Error (PAE) matrix from AlphaFold esti-
mates the positional error (in ˚Angstr¨oms) between any two residues after aligning the predicted and
true structures on one of them. Low PAE values indicate high confidence in the relative positions of
residues, suggesting a structurally well-defined region, while high values imply uncertainty due to
either protein flexibility or a poorly predicted region.
Importantly, PAE provides structural cues beyond per-residue scores since it encodes the model’s
belief about the relative flexibility and coherence of structural regions. Intuitively, when two re-
3


Figure 2: An overview of HIERAFOLD. Given the input sequences of peptide chains, the coarse
stage generates pairwise conformation of chains with predicted PAE using a distilled diffusion mod-
ule. Using the PAE matrices, it divides each chain into structurally coherent subunits (dark diagonal
blocks) and detects potential interface subunits (dark off-diagonal patches) across chains. Struc-
ture of the focus chain with the selected subunits from other chains is refined using AlphaFold3
full model. Multiple partial predictions are aligned and assembled by estimating the transformation
matrix with a confidence-weighted method.
gions of a protein move coherently as a rigid unit, the model can predict their relative positions
with high confidence, leading to low PAE. Conversely, residues belonging to different domains or
flexible linkers exhibit higher relative uncertainty and therefore higher PAE, providing a meaningful
structural signal for segmentation. As illustrated in Fig. 1: (i) low-value diagonal blocks often align
with intrinsic, independently folded subunits within a chain, which represent functional domains
rather than individual residues. Biologically, these subunits, instead of individual amino acids, rep-
resent functional modules and act as units to facilitate interaction between peptide chains (Pawson,
1995). (ii) off-diagonal low-value blocks correspond to confident inter-chain or inter-subunit con-
tacts, highlighting potential interfaces critical for assembly. This observation suggests that PAE
can be leveraged to heuristically segment large complexes into subunits and to identify interacting
interfaces, enabling modular decomposition into tractable parts for scalable structure prediction.
4
HIERAFOLD
For a large protein complex with peptide chains {C1, C2, . . . , CM} with a total of N tokens, end-to-
end prediction quickly becomes computationally infeasible as N grows. HIERAFOLD overcomes
this by reformulating the prediction problem as a series of smaller, computationally tractable refine-
ment tasks, guided by the protein complex’s inherent modularity. Instead of processing the entire
complex at once, it iteratively predicts the structure of a designated focus chain Ca in the context
of only its most relevant interacting subunits, denoted as N(Ca). After all chains are refined in
the corresponding localized context, the results are integrated into a complete structure through a
confidence-aware assembly step.
The full pipeline (Fig. 2) proceeds in three stages: (i) Coarse stage: generate fast pairwise predic-
tions and derive modular decomposition from PAE matrices; (ii) Fine stage: perform high resolution,
interface-aware refinement of each focus chain Ca together with its selected subunits N(Ca) from
other chains; and (iii) Assembly stage: merge partial structures using a confidence-weighted algo-
rithm. This hierarchical design captures both local structural accuracy and long-range cooperative
interactions, while keeping memory demands within practical limits.
4


4.1
COARSE STAGE: PAIRWISE PREDICTION AND MODULAR DECOMPOSITION
The first stage aims to decompose a whole complex into several tractable parts based on the inherent
modularity of the complex. This process consists of three steps: fast pairwise prediction, PAE-
guided subunit segmentation, and interacting subunit selection.
Fast Pairwise Conformation Prediction To obtain the initial structural and PAE matrix for mod-
ular decomposition, given the peptide chain sequences, the first step of HIERFOLD is to perform
pairwise structure prediction on every pair of chains (Ci, Cj). However, running a full AlphaFold3-
style inference with hundreds of diffusion steps for all
 M
2

pairs would be prohibitively slow. To
accelerate this, we employ a consistency-distilled structural predictor (Song et al., 2023; Song &
Dhariwal, 2023). The goal is to train a model fθ that can generate coordinates x0 of the chain pair
(Ci, Cj) from a random noise input xT in a single step or few steps: x0 = fθ(xT , T).
We train this model using a consistency objective, which enforces that the outputs of the model at
different points along the probability flow ODE’s trajectory are self-consistent (Song et al., 2020b;
2023). Let θ−be the parameters of a target model (an exponential moving average of the model’s
parameters θ). The loss is defined on pairs of adjacent time steps (tn, tn+1): Given noisy coordinates
xtn+1 and an ODE-based backstep estimate (Song et al., 2020a) ˆxtn:
Lcon = E

d(fθ(xtn+1, tn+1, c), fθ−(ˆxtn, tn, c))

,
(1)
where c represents the conditioning feature extracted from the Pairformer. ˆxtn is the one-step ODE
solution starting from xtn+1, and d is a distance metric in coordinate space (e.g., a clamped L2
distance). To further reduce computational cost, the distilled model uses a shallower Pairformer (12
vs. 24 blocks). This process yields a set of coarse coordinate predictions {Xij} and corresponding
PAE matrices {Pij} for all chain pairs, which serve as the input for the subsequent stages.
PAE-Guided Subunit Segmentation for Biological Modularity With the predicted pairwise PAE
matrix, the next step is to segment each chain into the intrinsically independent folded subunits. For
a chain Ci of length L, its intra-chain PAE matrix Pii = Pij[: L, : L] reveals its internal structural
confidence. We observe that diagonal blocks of PAE matrices with low average PAE values corre-
spond to compact domains or stable structural motifs (e.g., alpha-helices and beta-sheets), as shown
in Fig. 1.
To achieve this automatic subunit segmentation, we employ a recursive, top-down partitioning algo-
rithm that iteratively identifies the most probable boundaries within a protein segment. For any given
segment defined by residue indices [i, j), the method searches for the optimal split point k (where
i < k < j) that maximizes the uncertainty between the two resulting sub-segments, S1 = [i, k) and
S2 = [k, j). This uncertainty is quantified by the mean inter-subunit PAE, Pinter(k), calculated as
the average PAE over the off-diagonal blocks of P:
Pinter(k) = 1
2(
Pk−1
u=i
Pj−1
v=k Puv
(k −i)(j −k)
+
Pj−1
u=k
Pk−1
v=i Puv
(j −k)(k −i) ).
(2)
The algorithm proceeds as follows: A queue is initialized with the entire chain segment (0, L). In
each step, a segment (i, j) is dequeued. We then identify the optimal split point k∗that maximizes
Pinter(k). The split is acceptable if Pinter(k) exceeds a predefined split threshold, τsplit, and both new
sub-segments are larger than a minimum size Lmin. The new split segments are now queued. This
process continues until no more splits can be made, yielding a set of subunits Ui,1, Ui,2, . . . for each
chain Ci.
Interacting Subunit Selection Finally, for each “focus chain” Ca, we identify a neighborhood of
relevant interacting subunits N(Ca), from all other chains Cb, b ̸= a, and ignoring other subunits.
For subunit Ub,j on other chain Cb, it is selected if it meets two criteria based on the coarse pre-
dictions: high confidence (low PAE) and spatial proximity, which indicates Ub,j may be at the
interaction interfaces of Cb and focus chain Ca. Specifically , for each subunit Ub,j on other chain
Cb, we compute: (i) Mean Interface PAE: ¯P(Ca, Ub,j), the average PAE value between residues in
Ca and residues in Ub,j from the pairwise matrix Pab. A low value indicates a high probability of
interacting. A subunit Ub,j is included in the neighborhood set N(Ca) if ¯P(Ca, Ub,j) < τp. (ii)
Minimum Distance: dmin(Ca, Ub,j), the minimum distance between any center atom in Ca and any
5


center atom in Ub,j from the coarse predicted structure Xab. Ub,j is included if dmin(Ca, Ub,j) < τd.
This step effectively identifies sparse cross-chain ”bridges” for the refinement stage.
4.2
FINE STAGE: INTERFACE-AWARE REFINEMENT
With the pruned context defined for each focus chain, HIERAFOLD performs high-resolution struc-
ture prediction. For each focus chain Ca ∈{C1, . . . , CM}, we execute a full AlphaFold3-style in-
ference on the composite input formed by Ca and its selected interacting subunits N(Ca). Because
the input for each run is limited to one full chain plus only the relevant interface subunits from other
chains, the total token count remains well below the memory limits of standard GPUs. This step gen-
erates a set of M high-resolution, partially overlapping structural predictions, { ˆX1, ˆX2, . . . , ˆXM},
each capturing the detailed conformation of a focus chain within its interaction context. However,
each partial prediction is in its own coordinate frame.
4.3
ASSEMBLY STAGE: CONFIDENCE-AWARE GLOBAL ALIGNMENT
The final stage is to assemble the M partial, well-predicted structures into a single, coherent model
of the entire complex. We perform this assembly iteratively. We initialize the global assembly
with the highest confidence partial prediction, ˆXbest. Then, we iteratively align each remaining
partial structure ˆXa to the current global assembly. To ensure robustness, we use a confidence-
weighted Kabsch algorithm (Kabsch, 1976) instead of a simple global superposition. Specifically,
we identify the set of atoms that are common to both the global assembly and the partial structure
ˆXa. The optimal rotation R and translation t are found by minimizing the weighted root-mean-
square deviation (RMSD) over the set of atoms common to both structures, where the contribution
of each atom pair is weighted by the product of their pLDDT scores:
argmin
R,t
X
k∈overlap
wk∥(Rxa,k+t)−xglobal,k∥2,
where wk = pLDDT(xa,k)·pLDDT(xglobal,k). (3)
This method ensures that the alignment is driven by the most confidently predicted regions of the
interface, making the assembly resilient to flexible or poorly predicted loops (low pLDDT). After
alignment, the refined coordinates of the focus chain Ca from ˆXa are merged into the global assem-
bly. For multiple samples, the top-ranked one is always aligned with the top-ranked one. The final
structure is ranked using a composite score, similar to AlphaFold3.
5
IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
Setup and Terminology Since the official AlphaFold3 training code is not publicly available, all
experiments use Protenix (v0.5.0) (Team et al., 2025), an open-source PyTorch reproduction (Paszke
et al., 2019), as our baseline and core predictive module. ”AlphaFold3” in our experiments refers
to predictions made with the pretrained Protenix model. We acknowledge that any performance
differences between our results and the original AlphaFold3 paper may arise from implementation
or model weight discrepancies.
5.1
CONSISTENCY DISTILLATION
To enable efficient pairwise conformation prediction within HIERAFOLD, we trained a consistency-
distilled version of the Protenix structure module.
Architecture We reduced the computational cost of the structure predictor by halving the num-
ber of token-level transformer blocks from 24 to 12. The atom-level transformer stack remained
unchanged. All other architectural hyperparameters followed the Protenix v0.5.0 defaults.
Training The distilled diffusion model was trained using the Adam optimizer (Kingma, 2014) with
a learning rate of 1 × 10−5, a 2,000 steps linear warmup, β1 = 0.9, β2 = 0.95, and a weight decay
of 1 × 10−8. The noise scheduler is the same as the default in Protenix. Training was performed on
the preprocessed complex dataset provided with Protenix, with sequences cropped to a maximum of
512 tokens to fit within GPU memory.
6


Table 1: Performance comparison on protein-protein and protein-ligand benchmarks. DockQ Suc-
cess Rate (%) is reported for protein-protein interfaces, and Ligand RMSD ≤2 ˚A Success Rate (%)
is reported for PoseBuster v2 benchmark. “OOM” denotes Out-Of-Memory failure on an 80GB
A100 GPU. HIERAFOLD matches the performance of the full AlphaFold3 baseline while success-
fully predicting large complexes where the baseline fails.
Method
Recent PDB
PoseBuster v2
Large Complexes (>5k tokens)
Oracle
Top-1
Oracle
Top-1
Oracle
Top-1
MoLPC
–
31.3
–
–
–
–
CombFold (w/ AFM)
49.9
48.8
–
–
20.9
19.9
AlphaFold-Multimer (AFM)
71.5
67.1
–
–
OOM
OOM
CombFold+AF3
47.5
43.2
–
–
20.7
19.8
RoseTTAFold All-Atom
–
55.4
–
41.8
–
–
AlphaFold3 (Baseline)
74.4
70.4
78.6
76.0
OOM
OOM
+ HIERAFOLD (Ours)
72.6
68.4
–
–
44.1
43.6
HIERAFOLD (Ours)
73.1
69.0
77.4
74.7
44.5
43.9
Sampling / Inference During the coarse pairwise prediction stage, we run the distilled model for
only two iterative refinement steps. For each chain pair, we generate five stochastic samples and
select the top-ranked one based on a composite score of ipTM, pTM, and clash penalties. This
single, high-ranked coarse prediction is then used for subunit segmentation and selection.
5.2
SUBUNIT SEGMENTATION SELECTION POLICY
For subunit For PAE-guided subunit segmentation, the split threshold τsplit was set to 10.0, and the
minimum subunit size Lmin was set to 20 residues.
Selection Policy
The selection of subunits or tokens for the high-resolution refinement stage fol-
lows a set of hierarchical rules:
• Short Chains: Polymer chains with fewer than 40 tokens are always retained and are not
further segmented and selected.
• Ligands: For small molecular ligands, all ligand atoms are always retained. All ligands
are docked independently with each focus chain and selected subunits from other chains.
The final pose is selected based on the highest average atom pLDDT, since we assume the
underlying AlphaFold3 scoring is sufficiently discriminative to rank the correct binding
partner.
• Low-Confidence Pairs: If the coarse prediction for a chain pair (Ci, Cj) yields a maxi-
mum ipTM score below 0.2, the interaction is considered unreliable, and the partner chain
Cj is entirely excluded from the context of Ci because such pairs are unlikely to represent
a true physical interaction.
• Subunit/Token Filtering: For polymer chains with 40 or more tokens, we apply the
confidence- and proximity-based selection described in Section 3.3. A subunit is selected
if its mean interface PAE is less than τp = 5.0 or its minimum distance to the focus chain
is less than τd = 20 ˚A. Distances are calculated between the center atoms (Cα for amino
acids, C1′ for nucleotides). If subunit segmentation fails for a given chain, the selection
logic reverts to operating at the individual token level.
6
EXPERIMENT
6.1
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
Baseline Model Again, since the official AlphaFold3 code and weights are not publicly available for
training, we use Protenix (v0.5.0) as our core predictive module and primary baseline. All mentions
7


CombFold
HierAFold
GT
CombFold
HierAFold
GT
Figure 4: Visualization of complex modeling results comparing HierAFold and CombFold. Left
PDB ID is 7na5 and right PDB ID is 8gvi. The gray chains are ground truth. Considering only
pairwise interactions causes CombFold to ignore multi-chain interactions, leading to an inaccurate
final assembly.
of ”AlphaFold3” in our experiments refer to this reproduced version. We use the provided pretrained
weights for all predictions.
Baselines for Comparison We benchmark HIERAFOLD against several methods: (i)AlphaFold3
(Protenix): The end-to-end Protenix model, representing the state-of-the-art upper bound in accu-
racy. (ii) AlphaFold-Multimer (AFM) (Evans et al., 2021): The v2.3 model, a strong baseline for
protein-only complexes. (iii) CombFold: A representative ”divide-and-conquer” method that pre-
dicts all pairwise interactions and assembles them. To ensure a fair comparison, we created a variant,
(iv) CombFold+AF3: A CombFold variant using our AlphaFold3 as the prediction engine instead
of its default AlphaFold-Multimer. (v) MoLPC: Another assembly-based method, primarily de-
signed for homomeric complexes. (vi) RoseTTAFold All-Atom: An end-to-end biomolecular com-
plex structure predictor (Krishna et al., 2024). (vii) Merizo+HIERAFOLD: A HierAFold variant in
which subunit segmentation was replaced by Merizo, a deep learning based method for domain seg-
mentation on protein chain (Lau et al., 2023), while keeping all other components unchanged. For
all methods, the MSA (Edgar & Batzoglou, 2006), baseline details can be found in Appendix A.1.
Figure 3: Token number vs GPU memory cost.
By default, Protenix inference uses BF16 mixed
precision. The decrease when the token number
> 3000 occurs because SampleDiffusion and
ConfidenceHead switch from FP32 to BF16 (set
by Protenix).
HIERAFOLD saves about 40%
GPU memory for large token counts.
Evaluation Metrics For protein-protein inter-
faces, we report the DockQ success rate, defined
as the percentage of predictions with a DockQ
score > 0.23, following the AlphaFold3 paper
(Basu & Wallner, 2016), (Mirabello & Wallner,
2024). For protein-ligand interfaces, we report
the success rate of predictions achieving a lig-
and RMSD ≤2.0 ˚A after alignment to the na-
tive pocket, following established benchmarks.
We report both the ”Oracle” score (the best re-
sult among all generated samples) and the ”Top-
1” score (the result of the single highest-ranked
sample).
6.2
RECENT PDB
Dataset We used the recent PDB benchmark as
defined in the Protenix and AlphaFold3 papers.
This dataset contains low-homology protein com-
plexes filtered from the Protein Data Bank (PDB)
(Bank, 1971) released after the training set cutoff
(2021-09-30), providing a robust test of generalization for protein-protein interface prediction, con-
8


sisting of complexes with up to 20 chains and 5,120 tokens. Following the Alphafold3 and Protenix,
for each case, 25 samples were generated using five model seeds (each with five diffusion samples).
We report results from our model with 4 recycles and from AFM with 5 recycles.
Results As shown in Table 1, HIERAFOLD achieves an Oracle success rate of 73.1% and a Top-1
rate of 69.0% on the recent PDB benchmark. This performance is nearly identical to the end-to-end
AlphaFold3 baseline (74.4% Oracle, 70.4% Top-1), demonstrating that our hierarchical approach
almost does not sacrifice accuracy on standard-sized complexes. In contrast, both CombFold vari-
ants show a significant drop in performance. CombFold+AF3, despite using the same powerful
prediction engine, scores only 47.5% (Top-1), highlighting the importance of our method’s ability
to incorporate multi-chain context during refinement, which purely pairwise methods lack.
The visualizations in Fig. 4 further demonstrate that HIERAFOLD enables more accurate complex
prediction. Furthermore, the marginal lower performance of Merizo + HIERAFOLD demonstrates
that more complex domain segmentation does not yield better downstream structure prediction and
confirms that PAE-based segmentation is well aligned with HierAFold’s refinement pipeline without
additional costs. More results on subunit segmentation are detailed in Appendix A.9. We further
evaluate the peak GPU memory usage compared with the baseline as shown in Fig. 3. Compared
with the end-to-end baseline prediction, our method saves ∼40% GPU memory when the number
of tokens is large, as each inference step only processes a single focus chain and its selected interface
subunits.
Figure 5: Visualization of IDRs prediction. Left:
The cyan chain is the IDRs predicted by HIER-
AFOLD and the violet chain is the ground truth
(PDB ID: 7zwa).
Right:
The corresponding
cropped PAE matrix. The orange square marks
divided IDRs subunit (lower left and upper right).
The red rectangle highlights the low-PAE region
at the IDRs interface.
Performance on Intrinsically Disordered Re-
gions Intrinsically disordered protein regions
(IDRs), sequences lacking stable tertiary struc-
ture, are pivotal in cellular processes (Babu
et al., 2011; Oldfield et al., 2019). Interactions
between IDRs and their partners are character-
ized by partial and dynamic binding (Tompa
& Fuxreiter, 2008) and are accurately captured
by AFM (Omidi et al., 2024).
To evaluate
how IDRs affect HIERAFOLD, we analyzed the
recent PDB dataset following established pro-
cedures.
Each residue was annotated with a
disorder probability using AIUPred (Erd˝os &
Doszt´anyi, 2024), interface residues were iden-
tified where any two heavy atoms are within 10
˚A of each other (Mirabello & Wallner, 2024)
and for each complex we computed the mean
disorder score at the interface. Complexes were
then grouped into three bins: low (0.1– 0.25), medium (0.25 – 0.5), and high disorder (> 0.5). For
both the AlphaFold3 baseline and HIERAFOLD, we measured the mean DockQ for each bin:
Mean Interface IDR Score
AlphaFold3 (Baseline)
HIERAFOLD (Ours)
Mean DockQ
Mean DockQ
Low (0.1 – 0.25)
0.55
0.52
Medium (0.25 – 0.5)
0.49
0.44
High (> 0.5)
0.46
0.41
Table 2: Performance comparison on the recent PDB dataset, binned by the mean disorder score of
interface residues.
The results (Table 2) reveal a consistent trend: as interface disorder increases, DockQ scores
decrease for both models. This is expected, because IDRs are flexible, underrepresented in training
data, and often participate in transient or fuzzy interactions.
Importantly, HIERAFOLD exhibits almost the same degradation pattern as AlphaFold3, demon-
strating that our hierarchical coarse-to-fine pipeline preserves AlphaFold3’s robustness when han-
dling disordered interfaces. In other words, the introduction of subunit segmentation, interface se-
lection, and hierarchical assembly does not introduce additional weaknesses for IDRs, as shown in
9


Fig. 5. This robustness stems from how IDRs behave under our PAE-guided workflow: (i) Segmen-
tation: IDRs appear as high-PAE or highly flexible regions and are naturally isolated into their own
subunits (orange blocks in Fig. 5). (ii) Interaction Selection: When IDRs genuinely participate in
binding, they produce localized low cross-chain PAE signals that ensure their inclusion during fine-
stage refinement (red block in Fig. 5 representing the interaction between KU and PAXX protein).
(iii) Assembly: Because IDRs generally receive low confidence scores, they are automatically down-
weighted during confidence-weighted alignment, preventing unreliable geometry from distorting the
global structure.
6.3
POSEBUSTER V2
Dataset We evaluated protein-ligand performance on the PoseBuster v2 benchmark (Buttenschoen
et al., 2024), a standard dataset for evaluating small molecule docking accuracy containing up to
4,100 tokens and 4 chains.
Results On PoseBuster v2, HIERAFOLD achieves a Top-1 success rate of 74.7%, again closely mir-
roring the 77.4% achieved by the full AlphaFold3 baseline (Table 1). This confirms that our subunit
selection and assembly process correctly preserves the fine-grained atomic interactions necessary
for accurate ligand placement, and our special handling of small molecular ligands is effective.
6.4
FILTERED LARGE COMPLEX DATASET
Dataset To test the primary motivation for our work, we curated a dataset of protein complexes
filtered from PDB, which was released after 2021-09-30 and contains 5,000 to 10,000 tokens with up
to 30 chains. The filtered large complex dataset consists of 664 interfaces. These complexes are too
large to be processed on one 80GB A100 GPU by the baseline (AlphaFold3, AlphaFold-Multimer).
GT
HierAFold
CombFold
Figure 6: Visualization of our method com-
pared with the CombFold result on the large
complex dataset. The PDB ID is 9bj4. The
gray chains are ground truth.
Results The end-to-end baseline failed with Out-
Of-Memory (OOM) errors. HIERAFOLD achieved
a Top-1 DockQ success rate of 43.9%, significantly
outperforming CombFold+AF3 (19.8%). This re-
sult, combined with the visualization in Fig.
6,
demonstrates that by intelligently pruning the con-
text for refinement, HIERAFOLD effectively breaks
the memory barrier while retaining context needed
to resolve complex multi-chain interfaces.
The
overall performance is lower than on the recent
PDB dataset, which can be attributed to two fac-
tors. First, the Large Complex Dataset has a much
higher proportion of protein-antibody interactions
(40% vs.
6%), for which AlphaFold3’s perfor-
mance is known to be lower. Second, the maximum
sequence crop size during AlphaFold3 training (768
tokens) is much smaller than most of the chain lengths in this dataset, creating a train-test gap. De-
spite these challenges, HIERAFOLD still outperforms CombFold by a large margin. Finetuning on
a large complex dataset with a larger crop size could potentially mitigate this performance gap.
7
CONCLUSION
We presented HIERAFOLD, a hierarchical framework for predicting large protein complexes that
overcomes the memory bottlenecks of existing end-to-end models. By leveraging coarse predic-
tions and PAE-guided modular decomposition, our method automatically identifies subunits and
interfaces, and refines each chain in the context of its key interacting partners. This design reduces
memory requirements by up to 40% while preserving essential multi-body cooperativity. Experi-
ments show that HIERAFOLD matches AlphaFold3 on standard benchmarks and, critically, extends
tractable prediction to complexes exceeding 5,000 tokens, achieving substantial gains over prior
divide-and-conquer approaches. Limitations and future work of HIERAFOLD can be found in Ap-
pendix A.11.
10


REFERENCES
Josh Abramson, Jonas Adler, Jack Dunger, Richard Evans, Tim Green, Alexander Pritzel, Olaf
Ronneberger, Lindsay Willmore, Andrew J Ballard, Joshua Bambrick, et al. Accurate structure
prediction of biomolecular interactions with alphafold 3. Nature, 630(8016):493–500, 2024.
Gustaf Ahdritz, Nazim Bouatta, Christina Floristean, Sachin Kadyan, Qinghui Xia, William
Gerecke, Timothy J O’Donnell, Daniel Berenberg, Ian Fisk, Niccol`o Zanichelli, et al. Open-
fold: Retraining alphafold2 yields new insights into its learning mechanisms and capacity for
generalization. Nature methods, 21(8):1514–1524, 2024.
M Madan Babu, Robin van der Lee, Natalia Sanchez de Groot, and J¨org Gsponer. Intrinsically
disordered proteins: regulation and disease. Current opinion in structural biology, 21(3):432–
440, 2011.
Minkyung Baek, Frank DiMaio, Ivan Anishchenko, Justas Dauparas, Sergey Ovchinnikov, Gyu Rie
Lee, Jue Wang, Qian Cong, Lisa N Kinch, R Dustin Schaeffer, et al. Accurate prediction of
protein structures and interactions using a three-track neural network. Science, 373(6557):871–
876, 2021.
Protein Data Bank. Protein data bank. Nature New Biol, 233(223):10–1038, 1971.
Sankar Basu and Bj¨orn Wallner. Dockq: a quality measure for protein-protein docking models. PloS
one, 11(8):e0161879, 2016.
Patrick Bryant, Gabriele Pozzati, Wensi Zhu, Aditi Shenoy, Petras Kundrotas, and Arne Elofsson.
Predicting the structure of large protein complexes using alphafold and monte carlo tree search.
Nature communications, 13(1):6028, 2022.
Martin Buttenschoen, Garrett M Morris, and Charlotte M Deane. Posebusters: Ai-based docking
methods fail to generate physically valid poses or generalise to novel sequences. Chemical Sci-
ence, 15(9):3130–3139, 2024.
Guillaume Maurice Jean-Bernard Chaslot Chaslot. Monte-carlo tree search. 2010.
Ho Yeung Chim and Arne Elofsson. Molpc2: improved prediction of large protein complex struc-
tures and stoichiometry using monte carlo tree search and alphafold2. Bioinformatics, 40(6):
btae329, 2024.
Zongyang Du, Hong Su, Wenkai Wang, Lisha Ye, Hong Wei, Zhenling Peng, Ivan Anishchenko,
David Baker, and Jianyi Yang. The trrosetta server for fast and accurate protein structure predic-
tion. Nature protocols, 16(12):5634–5651, 2021.
Robert C Edgar and Serafim Batzoglou. Multiple sequence alignment. Current opinion in structural
biology, 16(3):368–373, 2006.
G´abor Erd˝os and Zsuzsanna Doszt´anyi. Aiupred: combining energy estimation with deep learning
for the enhanced prediction of protein disorder. Nucleic Acids Research, 52(W1):W176–W181,
2024.
Juan Esquivel-Rodr´ıguez, Yifeng David Yang, and Daisuke Kihara. Multi-lzerd: multiple protein
docking for asymmetric complexes. Proteins: Structure, Function, and Bioinformatics, 80(7):
1818–1833, 2012.
Richard Evans, Michael O’Neill, Alexander Pritzel, Natasha Antropova, Andrew Senior, Tim Green,
Augustin ˇZ´ıdek, Russ Bates, Sam Blackwell, Jason Yim, et al. Protein complex prediction with
alphafold-multimer. biorxiv, pp. 2021–10, 2021.
Lim Heo and Michael Feig. Multi-state modeling of g-protein coupled receptors at experimental
accuracy. Proteins: Structure, Function, and Bioinformatics, 90(11):1873–1885, 2022.
Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffusion probabilistic models. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 33:6840–6851, 2020.
11


Yuval Inbar, Hadar Benyamini, Ruth Nussinov, and Haim J Wolfson. Protein structure prediction
via combinatorial assembly of sub-structural units. Bioinformatics-Oxford, 19(1):158–168, 2003.
John Jumper, Richard Evans, Alexander Pritzel, Tim Green, Michael Figurnov, Olaf Ronneberger,
Kathryn Tunyasuvunakool, Russ Bates, Augustin ˇZ´ıdek, Anna Potapenko, et al. Highly accurate
protein structure prediction with alphafold. nature, 596(7873):583–589, 2021.
Wolfgang Kabsch. A solution for the best rotation to relate two sets of vectors. Foundations of
Crystallography, 32(5):922–923, 1976.
Diederik P Kingma. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980,
2014.
Rohith Krishna, Jue Wang, Woody Ahern, Pascal Sturmfels, Preetham Venkatesh, Indrek Kalvet,
Gyu Rie Lee, Felix S Morey-Burrows, Ivan Anishchenko, Ian R Humphreys, et al. Generalized
biomolecular modeling and design with rosettafold all-atom. Science, 384(6693):eadl2528, 2024.
Guray Kuzu, Ozlem Keskin, Ruth Nussinov, and Attila Gursoy. Modeling protein assemblies in the
proteome. Molecular & cellular proteomics, 13(3):887–896, 2014.
Andy M Lau, Shaun M Kandathil, and David T Jones. Merizo: a rapid and accurate protein domain
segmentation method using invariant point attention. Nature Communications, 14(1):8445, 2023.
Andy M Lau, Nicola Bordin, Shaun M Kandathil, Ian Sillitoe, Vaishali P Waman, Jude Wells,
Christine A Orengo, and David T Jones. Exploring structural diversity across the protein universe
with the encyclopedia of domains. Science, 386(6721):eadq4946, 2024.
Valerio Mariani, Marco Biasini, Alessandro Barbato, and Torsten Schwede.
lddt:
a local
superposition-free score for comparing protein structures and models using distance difference
tests. Bioinformatics, 29(21):2722–2728, 2013.
Claudio Mirabello and Bj¨orn Wallner. Dockq v2: improved automatic quality measure for protein
multimers, nucleic acids, and small molecules. Bioinformatics, 40(10):btae586, 2024.
Christopher J Oldfield, Vladimir N Uversky, A Keith Dunker, and Lukasz Kurgan. Introduction
to intrinsically disordered proteins and regions. In Intrinsically disordered proteins, pp. 1–34.
Elsevier, 2019.
Alireza Omidi, Mads Harder Møller, Nawar Malhis, Jennifer M Bui, and J¨org Gsponer. Alphafold-
multimer accurately captures interactions and dynamics of intrinsically disordered protein re-
gions. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 121(44):e2406407121, 2024.
Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory Chanan, Trevor
Killeen, Zeming Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, et al. Pytorch: An imperative style, high-
performance deep learning library. Advances in neural information processing systems, 32, 2019.
Tony Pawson. Protein modules and signalling networks. Nature, 373(6515):573–580, 1995.
Chun-Xiang Peng, Fang Liang, Yu-Hao Xia, Kai-Long Zhao, Ming-Hua Hou, and Gui-Jun Zhang.
Recent advances and challenges in protein structure prediction. Journal of Chemical Information
and Modeling, 64(1):76–95, 2023.
Dana Reichmann, Ofer Rahat, Shira Albeck, Ran Meged, Orly Dym, and Gideon Schreiber. The
modular architecture of protein–protein binding interfaces. Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences, 102(1):57–62, 2005.
R Dustin Schaeffer, Yuxing Liao, Hua Cheng, and Nick V Grishin. Ecod: new developments in the
evolutionary classification of domains. Nucleic acids research, 45(D1):D296–D302, 2017.
Andrew W Senior, Richard Evans, John Jumper, James Kirkpatrick, Laurent Sifre, Tim Green,
Chongli Qin, Augustin ˇZ´ıdek, Alexander WR Nelson, Alex Bridgland, et al. Improved protein
structure prediction using potentials from deep learning. Nature, 577(7792):706–710, 2020.
12


Ben Shor and Dina Schneidman-Duhovny. Combfold: predicting structures of large protein assem-
blies using a combinatorial assembly algorithm and alphafold2. Nature methods, 21(3):477–487,
2024.
Ian Sillitoe, Nicola Bordin, Natalie Dawson, Vaishali P Waman, Paul Ashford, Harry M Scholes,
Camilla SM Pang, Laurel Woodridge, Clemens Rauer, Neeladri Sen, et al. Cath: increased struc-
tural coverage of functional space. Nucleic acids research, 49(D1):D266–D273, 2021.
Jiaming Song, Chenlin Meng, and Stefano Ermon. Denoising diffusion implicit models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2010.02502, 2020a.
Yang Song and Prafulla Dhariwal. Improved techniques for training consistency models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.14189, 2023.
Yang Song, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Diederik P Kingma, Abhishek Kumar, Stefano Ermon, and Ben
Poole. Score-based generative modeling through stochastic differential equations. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2011.13456, 2020b.
Yang Song, Prafulla Dhariwal, Mark Chen, and Ilya Sutskever. Consistency models. In Proceedings
of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 32211–32252, 2023.
ByteDance AML AI4Science Team, Xinshi Chen, Yuxuan Zhang, Chan Lu, Wenzhi Ma, Jiaqi Guan,
Chengyue Gong, Jincai Yang, Hanyu Zhang, Ke Zhang, et al. Protenix-advancing structure pre-
diction through a comprehensive alphafold3 reproduction. BioRxiv, pp. 2025–01, 2025.
Peter Tompa and Monika Fuxreiter. Fuzzy complexes: polymorphism and structural disorder in
protein–protein interactions. Trends in biochemical sciences, 33(1):2–8, 2008.
Hannah K Wayment-Steele, Adedolapo Ojoawo, Renee Otten, Julia M Apitz, Warintra Pitsawong,
Marc H¨omberger, Sergey Ovchinnikov, Lucy Colwell, and Dorothee Kern. Predicting multiple
conformations via sequence clustering and alphafold2. Nature, 625(7996):832–839, 2024.
Jude Wells, Alex Hawkins-Hooker, Nicola Bordin, Ian Sillitoe, Brooks Paige, and Christine Orengo.
Chainsaw: protein domain segmentation with fully convolutional neural networks. Bioinformat-
ics, 40(5):btae296, 2024.
Zhong-Ze Yu, Chun-Xiang Peng, Jun Liu, Biao Zhang, Xiao-Gen Zhou, and Gui-Jun Zhang.
Dombpred: protein domain boundary prediction based on domain-residue clustering using inter-
residue distance. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, 20(2):
912–922, 2022.
Jing Zhang, R Dustin Schaeffer, Jesse Durham, Qian Cong, and Nick V Grishin. Dpam: A domain
parser for alphafold models. Protein Science, 32(2):e4548, 2023.
Kun Zhu, Hong Su, Zhenling Peng, and Jianyi Yang. A unified approach to protein domain parsing
with inter-residue distance matrix. Bioinformatics, 39(2):btad070, 2023.
A
APPENDIX
A.1
BASELINE DETAILS
In this section, we describe the baseline models employed in our experiments. As most baselines
are designed to predict only protein-protein complexes, the evaluation is primarily conducted on the
recent PDB dataset.
A.1.1
MOLPC
We utilized the code from the MoLPC repository. The default settings were applied without modi-
fying any hyperparameters. MoLPC generates a single best predicted protein complex, which was
used for evaluation.
13


CombFold
HierAFold
CombFold
HierAFold
GT
GT
Figure 7: Visualization of complex modeling results comparing HierAFold and CombFold. Left
PDB ID is 7wck, and right PDB ID is 7ow5. The gray chains are ground truth.
A.1.2
COMBFOLD
We employed the code from CombFold repository. CombFold utilizes a combinatorial assembly
algorithm to construct protein complexes from their subunits. Its performance relies on the quality
and quantity of predicted subset-complexes provided by the underlying protein complex prediction
method (AlphaFold-Multimer in default). In this phase, we use both AlphaFold-Multimer v2 from
AlphaPulldown repository and Protenix (a reproduction of AlphaFold3) from Protenix repository as
the backbone prediction model, and we notate them as CombFold-AFMv2 and CombFold-Protenix.
CombFold accepts inputs comprising 2 or more subunits and applies its combinatorial method ac-
cordingly, and its performance depends on the number of input. To balance performance and time,
we included all heteromeric subunit pairs for every unique combination of distinct subunits, along
with homomeric subunit pairs for each chain homomer in the protein complex. Trimeric or longer
subunit complexes were not utilized; instead, all possible dimeric subunit complexes served as the
starting point for the assembly algorithm.
In CombFold, due to potential inaccuracies in pairwise transformations, subcomplexes are evalu-
ated for steric clashes among backbone atoms with pLDDT scores greater than 80. A subcomplex
is filtered out if more than 5% of its atoms exhibit clashes. However, for complexes that fail to
yield any valid predictions under this criterion, we disabled the filtering mechanism to generate re-
sults. CombFold produces multiple predictions, each accompanied by a confidence score, and we
selected the prediction with the highest confidence for our experiments as Top-1 accuracy, and the
highest performance within all samples is the oracle accuracy. For the CombFold-AFMv2 base-
line, we utilized multiple sequence alignments MSAs from the offline AlphaFold Database. For
the CombFold-Protenix baseline, we employed online MSA searches via the Protenix server while
performing the complex predictions offline.
A.2
ALPHAFOLD MULTIMER
We utilized the code from the AlphaPulldown repository. We employed AlphaPulldown’s default
settings, encompassing multiple sequence alignment (MSA) search and complex prediction. The
complex prediction process involves a 5-cycle inference that generates a single prediction, which
was utilized in our experiments. The rank-0 prediction sample represents the one with the high-
est confidence and serves as the Top-1 accuracy metric, while the highest performance among all
samples corresponds to the oracle accuracy.
14


A.3
ROSETTAFOLD ALL-ATOM
We utilized the code from the RoseTTAFold All-Atom. We employed RFAA’s default settings while
using the Alphafold-Multimer’s Database provided in AlphaPulldown repository v2.0.5. We used
Uniref30 version at 2023-02 to replace the original 2020-06 requirement in RFAA.
A.4
PSEUDO CODE
Algorithm 1 HIERAFOLD: Hierarchical Protein Complex Structure Prediction
Require: Set of peptide chains {C1, C2, . . . , CM} with total N tokens
Ensure: Assembled 3D structure of the protein complex
Coarse Stage: Pairwise Prediction and Modular Decomposition
1: for each pair of chains (Ci, Cj), i < j do
2:
Generate coarse predictions using distilled model: Xij, Pij (coordinates and PAE matrix)
3: for each chain Ci do
4:
Segment Ci into subunits {Ui,1, Ui,2, . . . } using PAE-guided recursive partitioning on Pii
5: for each focus chain Ca do
6:
Initialize neighborhood N(Ca) = ∅
7:
for each other chain Cb, b ̸= a do
8:
for each subunit Ub,j in Cb do
9:
Compute mean interface PAE: ¯P(Ca, Ub,j)
10:
Compute min distance: dmin(Ca, Ub,j)
11:
if ¯P(Ca, Ub,j) < τp or dmin(Ca, Ub,j) < τd then
12:
Add Ub,j to N(Ca)
Fine Stage: Interface-Aware Refinement
13: for each focus chain Ca do
14:
Form composite input: Ca ∪N(Ca)
15:
Perform full AlphaFold3-style inference to get refined structure ˆXa
Assembly Stage: Confidence-Aware Global Alignment
16: Initialize global assembly with highest-confidence ˆXbest
17: for each remaining partial structure ˆXa do
18:
Identify overlapping atoms between ˆXa and global assembly
19:
Compute confidence weights wk = pLDDT(xa,k) · pLDDT(xglobal,k)
20:
Find optimal R, t minimizing weighted RMSD:
21: Rank final structures using composite score (ipTM + pTM + clash detection)
A.5
ADDITIONAL COMPARISON WITH COMBFOLD
We further compared HIERAFOLD with CombFold on benchmark 2 provided by CombFold, 25
complexes with 5–30 chains and 2,000-18,000 amino acids. Most of those are included in the
recent PDB and filtered large complex data. The top-1 DockQ success rate is 30.2% (CombFold) vs
50.7% (ours).
We further performed an additional analysis to examine how the performance gap between HIER-
AFOLD and existing baselines changes as the size of the input complex increases. Specifically, we
partitioned complexes in the recent PDB benchmark into bins based on their total token count and
computed the Top-1 average DockQ difference between. The result is summarized in Table 3.
A.6
ABLATION STUDY
To validate the effectiveness of the key components in HIERAFOLD, we conducted a series of ab-
lation studies on the recent PDB dataset. We systematically dismantled our framework to quantify
the contribution of the consistency-distilled coarse model, the PAE-based subunit segmentation, the
PAE-guided subunit selection, and the confidence-aware assembly mechanism. The results are sum-
marized in Table 4.
15


Token Count
HIERAFOLD - CombFold (%)
HIERAFOLD - AlphaFold (%)
0 – 1,000
+13.4
-0.2
1,000 – 2,000
+19.4
-1.0
2,000 – 3,000
+23.0
-1.4
3,000 – 4,000
+23.9
-1.4
> 4,000
+23.1
-1.7
Table 3: Analysis of the DockQ success rate gap between HIERAFOLD and CombFold, as well as
between HIERAFOLD and AlphaFold, across increasing complex size on the recent PDB set. The
positive values indicate HIERAFOLD’s advantage.
Table 4: Ablation study of HIERAFOLD on the recent PDB dataset. We report the DockQ Success
Rate (%) and average inference time for a complex with an average of 3,000 tokens. The results
validate that each component of our proposed method contributes to the final performance and
efficiency.
Method
Oracle (%)
Top-1 (%)
Avg. Time (min)
HIERAFOLD (Ours)
73.1
69.0
46
Ablation on Coarse Prediction
w/ Full Diffusion Model
73.3
69.4
125
w/ Mini-rollout (20 steps)
71.0
68.2
52
Ablation on Subunit Segmentation
τsplit = 0 (residue level)
72.0
67.8
45
τsplit = 5
72.9
68.9
46
τsplit = 15
73.1
69.1
46
τsplit = 20
73.2
69.1
47
τsplit = 8 (on PDE)
72.4
68.2
45
Ablation on Subunit Selection
PAE-Only Selection
71.0
66.9
46
Distance-Only Selection
70.4
66.3
46
τp = 10 and τd = 30
73.4
69.3
50
Ablation on Fine Stage
w Distilled Model
69.3
64.9
15
Ablation on Assembly
w/ Unweighted Assembly
71.0
66.5
45
Effect of Distilled Coarse Prediction
The coarse stage is designed to be fast yet accurate enough
to guide the decomposition. We tested its importance by replacing it with the full, non-distilled
AlphaFold3 model for pairwise predictions. This provides a more accurate but significantly slower
coarse structure prediction process. As shown in Table 4, using the full diffusion model offers a
marginal 0.2% improvement in Oracle DockQ success rate on the recent PDB dataset but triples
the inference time, confirming that our distilled model provides the best trade-off between speed
and quality. We further evaluated the mini-rollout method to generate the coarse structure, which
degrades the DockQ success rate by 2%, while increasing the inference time, indicating the incorrect
pairwise conformation prediction affects the final result.
PAE-based Segmentation Sensitivity
In HIERAFOLD, a chain is partitioned into subunits based
on low-PAE blocks, controlled by the threshold τsplit. The default value in our experiments is
τsplit = 10. Larger thresholds create coarser subunits (fewer boundaries), while smaller thresholds
produce finer-grained segmentation. To assess sensitivity to τsplit, we systematically varied τsplit
and evaluated the downstream complex prediction accuracy (Table 4). The results demonstrate that:
(i) Performance remains stable across a broad and practical range of thresholds. (ii) Extremely
fine segmentation (τsplit = 0) harms performance, confirming that splitting residues individually
introduces unnatural discontinuities and disrupts coherent structural modeling.
(iii) Very large
16


HierAFold
HierAFold
HierAFold
CombFold
GT
GT
Figure 8: Left: Visualization of large complex modeling results comparing HierAFold and Comb-
Fold. PDB ID is 9kt3. Right: Additional visualization of HIERAFOLD on the large protein complex
dataset. PDB IDs are 8dxq and 9l2e. The gray chains are ground truth.
thresholds converge to end-to-end behavior, producing single-chain subunits.
While accuracy
remains stable, memory consumption increases, defeating the scalability benefits of our method.
We further compared PAE with an alternative confidence signal, Predicted Distance Error (PDE),
for subunit segmentation. For PDE, we optimized the segmentation threshold to ensure a fair com-
parison. However, results indicate that PAE better captures pairwise structural coherence essential
for identifying rigid subunits, making it the preferred confidence metric for our decomposition pro-
cedure.
Importance of PAE-Guided Subunit Selection
Our core hypothesis is that PAE-guided subunit
selection is superior to simpler heuristics. We evaluated this by ablating the selection criteria: (i)
PAE-Only: Selecting subunits based only on the mean interface PAE ( ¯P < τp). (ii) Distance-
Only: Selecting subunits based only on spatial proximity in the coarse structure (dmin < τd). The
results show that combining PAE and distance criteria is optimal. The PAE-only approach performs
better than the distance-only one, indicating that interaction confidence is a more reliable signal than
proximity alone. We further evaluate the effect of a looser selection policy where we changed the
τp to 10 and τd to 30 to include more subunits from the other chains. The performance increases
marginally with the increased peak memory usage and inference time.
Contribution of Confidence-Aware Assembly
Finally, we assessed the impact of our confidence-
aware alignment algorithm. We compared our standard method against a variant using an Un-
weighted Assembly, where the Kabsch algorithm is applied without pLDDT weighting. The un-
weighted method shows a noticeable drop in accuracy (69.0% to 66.5% Top-1). This highlights
that weighting the alignment by local confidence makes the assembly process more robust, espe-
cially for complexes with flexible linkers or poorly predicted regions, as it correctly prioritizes the
well-structured interfaces to guide the overall superposition.
A.7
MORE VISUALIZATION RESULTS
Fig. 7 shows more visualization of HIERAFOLD on the recent PDB dataset compared with Comb-
Fold. Fig. 8 shows HIERAFOLD performance on a large complex dataset, showing improvement in
capturing multiple chain interactions and performing well in monomers.
Table 5: DockQ success rate comparison of AlphaFold3 and HIERAFOLD on homomers and
heteromers.
Category
Metric
AlphaFold3
HIERAFOLD
Homomers
Oracle
77.3
76.2
Top-1
74.0
72.8
Heteromers
Oracle
72.3
70.9
Top-1
67.9
66.3
17


A.8
PERFORMANCE ON HOMOMERIC VS. HETEROMERIC COMPLEXES
We further examined performance across homomeric versus heteromeric complexes. Complexes
in the recent PDB dataset were categorized based on chain composition. As shown in Table 5,
both AlphaFold3 and HierAFold achieve higher accuracy on homomers, likely due to stronger co-
evolutionary and symmetry-related signals.
subsectionInfluence of the Number of Conformations Our experiments in recent PDB follow the
standard inference protocol of Protenix (Team et al., 2025), generating 25 conformations. To as-
sess the impact of sampling, we evaluated performance when generating fewer conformations. The
results are summarized in Table 6
Table 6: DockQ success rate comparison of AlphaFold3 and HIERAFOLD with different numbers
of generated conformations.
Category
Metric
AlphaFold3
HIERAFOLD (OURS)
n=5
Oracle
69.9
68.5
Top-1
65.0
63.6
n=10
Oracle
72.2
70.9
Top-1
67.5
66.1
n=25
Oracle
74.4
73.1
Top-1
70.4
69.0
A.9
SUBUNIT SEGMENTATION
To contextualize our approach, we compared the segmentation accuracy between our PAE-based
segmentation against Merizo (Lau et al., 2023) on the CATH-663 test set (Sillitoe et al., 2021).
As expected, Merizo achieves higher IoU (0.85 vs.
0.65), since it is explicitly designed and
trained for domain parsing, including the detection of discontinuous domains that are prevalent
in CATH. In contrast, our segmentation module is not optimized for canonical domain detection,
yet still achieves reasonable segmentation quality. It deliberately merges tightly packed regions
with uniformly low inter-subunit PAE into a single rigid unit—a behavior aligned with our design
objective of identifying structurally coherent subunits that matter for downstream refinement, rather
than reproducing evolutionary domain boundaries.
Despite this difference in segmentation granularity, our method achieves a boundary MCC of 0.79,
closely matching Merizo’s 0.84. This demonstrates that PAE provides a reliable structural signal for
locating true physical boundaries, even without specializing in fine-grained domain delineation.
Crucially, these variations in IoU have no negative impact on the final complex prediction accuracy
as shown in Table 1. The results confirm that PAE is an effective and sufficient metric for the
type of segmentation required by HIERAFOLD—identifying rigid subunits and interaction-relevant
boundaries that guide accurate multi-chain refinement.
Combined with the results above, our PAE-based segmentation offers three key advantages:
Computational Efficiency: No additional model or database queries are required. Seg-
mentation reuses PAE matrices already produced during coarse prediction, making it effec-
tively cost-free. Structural Relevance for Complex Assembly: PAE identifies rigid, co-
operatively moving structural units, not evolutionary domains. It also highlights inter-chain
interaction subunits, enabling interface-aware refinement, capabilities absent in existing
domain predictors. Competitive or Better Downstream Performance: Despite simpler
computation, PAE-based segmentation performs better than Merizo when evaluated in the
context of complex structure prediction, the task for which HierAFold is optimized.
A.10
EXTENSION OF HIERAFOLD TO ROSETTAFOLD ALL-ATOM
To evaluate the generalizability of HIERAFOLD beyond AlphaFold3, we integrated RoseTTAFold
All-Atom (Krishna et al., 2024) as an alternative backbone predictor. On a representative subset
18


of 50 complexes from the recent PDB dataset, the the HIERAFOLD-RoseTTAFold configuration
achieved a DockQ success rate of 53.7%, closely matching the 54.8% obtained by the end-to-end
RoseTTAFold All-Atom model, while reducing memory usage by ∼35%. This demonstrates that
HIERAFOLD is model-agnostic: it can seamlessly wrap around different backbone predictors and
preserve their accuracy while substantially improving scalability. As stronger predictors emerge,
they can be incorporated into the HierAFold pipeline to further enhance performance on large
complexes.
A.11
LIMITATION OF HIERAFOLD
A.11.1
COMPUTATION COST AND MITIGATION STRATEGIES
Figure 9: Conformation coverage is limited. The
left shows the prediction for PDB 8cvp (apo), and
the right for 8d7u (holo). The apo structure should
adopt an open conformation, while the holo is
closed. Both are predicted in the closed state in HI-
ERAFOLD (green box)
Although HIERAFOLD reduces peak GPU
memory usage by decomposing a large
complex into manageable subunits,
this
decomposition introduces extra computation
time.
We use several strategies to keep
this overhead practical: (i) Distilled Coarse
Prediction:
Running full AlphaFold3 for
every pairwise coarse prediction would be
prohibitively expensive. To address this, we
introduce a consistency-distilled diffusion
model with a shallower Pairformer.
This
replacement significantly reduces latency in
the coarse stage while maintaining effective
structural priors, as shown in Table 4.
(ii)
Parallelized Refinement:
For a complex
with M
chains,
HIERAFOLD
runs the
fine-stage refinement M
times–once for
each focus chain–but each run operates on a
substantially smaller input, lowering per-run
memory.
This reduction allows:
parallel
execution across multiple GPUs, or batching
execution in the diffusion module on a single
GPU. These options keep total inference time
manageable while enabling prediction of
complexes far beyond AlphaFold3’s memory
limit. We benchmarked both methods on a
single A100 GPU. The results are shown in Table 7.
Total Tokens
AlphaFold3 (min)
HIERAFOLD (min)
2,000
14
17
3,000
38
46
4,000
74
98
5,000
OOM
170
Table 7: Inference time comparison. While HIERAFOLD introduces extra computation cost, it
successfully runs on large complexes where the baseline fails due to memory constraints. The
baseline inference time is measured on Protenix v0.5.0.
A.11.2
MULTI-STATE ASSEMBLIES
A known challenge for AlphaFold-family models is the prediction of distinct functional states. Since
HIERAFOLD uses AlphaFold3 as its predictor, it inherits this limitation. For example, when pre-
dicting the structures of an E3 ubiquitin ligase in its apo (PDB: 8cvp, expected open state) and
holo (PDB: 8d7u, expected closed state) forms, HIERAFOLD, like the baseline, exclusively predicts
the closed conformation for both (Fig. 9). Methods developed for AlphaFold-Family that assist in
19


multistate prediction may be adaptable in HIERAFOLD (Wayment-Steele et al., 2024; Heo & Feig,
2022).
A.11.3
PERFORMANCE BOUND AND FUTURE WORK
Despite these advances, performance remains bounded by the underlying AlphaFold3 model, par-
ticularly for very large or challenging complexes. Future work will explore training strategies and
model enhancements to further improve accuracy on such complex tasks.
A.12
LLM USAGE
Throughout the preparation of this manuscript, a Large Language Model (LLM) was utilized as a
writing assistant to enhance the quality of the text. The primary role of the LLM was to polish
the language by improving grammar, refining sentence structure for clarity, and ensuring stylistic
consistency. It is important to state that the LLM’s contribution was strictly limited to language
enhancement. All conceptual development, research, analysis, and the core arguments presented in
this paper are the original work of the authors. Following the guidelines on academic integrity, we
have critically reviewed and edited all machine-generated suggestions and take full responsibility
for the final content and scientific accuracy of this publication.
20