SEPARABLE NEURAL NETWORKS:
APPROXIMATION
THEORY, NTK REGIME, AND PRECONDITIONED GRA-
DIENT DESCENT
Yisi Luo1, Deyu Meng1∗
1Xi’an Jiaotong University
yisiluo1221@foxmail.com, dymeng@mail.xjtu.edu.cn
ABSTRACT
Separable neural networks (SepNNs) are emerging neural architectures that sig-
niﬁcantly reduce computational costs by factorizing a multivariate function into
linear combinations of univariate functions, beneﬁting downstream applications
such as implicit neural representations (INRs) and physics-informed neural net-
works (PINNs). However, fundamental theoretical analysis for SepNN, including
detailed representation capacity and spectral bias characterization & alleviation,
remains unexplored. This work makes three key contributions to theoretically un-
derstanding and improving SepNN. First, using Weierstrass-based approximation
and universal approximation theory, we prove that SepNN can approximate any
multivariate function with arbitrary precision, conﬁrming its representation com-
pleteness. Second, we derive the neural tangent kernel (NTK) regimes for SepNN,
showing that the NTK of inﬁnite-width SepNN converges to a deterministic (or
random) kernel under inﬁnite (or ﬁxed) decomposition rank, with corresponding
convergence and spectral bias characterization. Third, we propose an efﬁcient sep-
arable preconditioned gradient descent (SepPGD) for optimizing SepNN, which
alleviates the spectral bias of SepNN by provably adjusting its NTK spectrum. The
SepPGD enjoys an efﬁcient O(nD) complexity for nD training samples, which
is much more efﬁcient than previous neural network PGD methods. Extensive
experiments for kernel ridge regression, image and surface representation using
INRs, and numerical PDEs using PINNs validate the efﬁciency of SepNN and the
effectiveness of SepPGD for alleviating spectral bias.
1
INTRODUCTION
Separable neural networks (SepNNs) are a class of neural architectures that represent a multivari-
ate function as a linear combination of univariate functions, each parameterized by a lightweight
factor neural network (Liang et al., 2022; Cho et al., 2023; Luo et al., 2024). A key advantage of
SepNNs lies in their ability to signiﬁcantly reduce computational costs by reducing network prop-
agations. The computational efﬁciency makes SepNN particularly advantageous and efﬁcient in
applications such as implicit neural representations (INRs) (Liang et al., 2022; Luo et al., 2024),
physical-informed neural networks (PINNs) (Cho et al., 2023; Yu et al., 2024), and neural radiance
ﬁelds (Chen et al., 2022). Compared to other efﬁcient architectures for neural networks, SepNNs
hold unique efﬁciency advantages. Especially, a classical line of work employs tensor decompo-
sition to factorize the weights of networks (Liu & Parhi, 2023), thereby reducing the number of
parameters. This efﬁcient architecture is the most closely related to SepNNs. However, SepNNs
are motivated by a fundamentally different idea. Rather than decomposing the network weights,
the principle of SepNNs is to separate the input vector into multiple smaller inputs and process
each input using factor networks. This design uniquely improves efﬁciency in scenarios involving
coordinate-based neural networks and function evaluations on grids by reusing the factor outputs.
Such a structure is particularly advantageous in applications like INRs (Liang et al., 2022), which
map coordinates to pixel values, and PINNs (Cho et al., 2023), which map coordinates to physical
∗Corresponding author. Code of SepPGD is in https://github.com/YisiLuo/SepPGD
1


ﬁelds. Moreover, SepNNs not only facilitate efﬁcient training, but also offer improved interpretabil-
ity and robustness by leveraging low-dimensional representations and interpretable factor modeling,
demonstrating strong potential for scientiﬁc applications such as separable operator learning (Yu
et al., 2024), radio map construction in wireless communication (Yuan et al., 2025), geophysical
full waveform inversion in Earth science (Chen et al., 2025), and transcriptomics analysis in bioin-
formatics (Song et al., 2023). Therefore, the structure and efﬁciency of SepNNs hold important
value across a variety of practical machine learning applications. We make more discussions on the
efﬁciency advantage of SepNNs in Section A.1.
Formally, a D-variable SepNN fΘ(x1, · · · , xD) can be expressed as
fΘ(x1, · · · , xD) = L(fΘ1(x1), · · · , fΘd(xD)) : RD →R,
where L denotes a type of linear combination that encodes the interactions between different uni-
variate factor functions {fΘd(xd)}D
d=1 (the factor functions {fΘd(xd)}D
d=1 are parameterized by
univariate neural networks, such as multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs)), and Θ = {Θ1, · · · , ΘD} are
learnable parameters. In the bivariate case D = 2, the inner product is a classical (if not only) choice
for L (see for example (Liang et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2025)):
fΘ(x1, x2) = fΘ1(x1)⊤fΘ2(x2) : R2 →R,
(1)
where fΘ1(x1), fΘ2(x2) : R →RR are factor functions mapping separated inputs to R-dimensional
latent vectors, and R serves as a “rank” parameter that determines the representation capacity of the
SepNN. In the multivariate case where D > 2, multiple alternatives exist for deﬁning the linear com-
bination L. A natural and widely-used option is the tensor canonical parafac (CP) decomposition
(Kargas & Sidiropoulos, 2021), which will be the primary focus of this study:
(CP)
fΘ(x1, · · · , xD) =
R
X
r=1
(fΘ1(x1))r (fΘ2(x2))r · · · (fΘD(xD))r : RD →R,
(2)
which computes the inner product between D factor functions {fΘd(xd) : R →RR}D
d=1, and
(fΘd(xd))r denotes the r-th component of fΘd(xd).
The CP SepNN (2) degenerates into (1)
when D = 2. In addition, other stochastic tensor decomposition formulations can be considered
to construct the SepNN. For instance, the tensor-train (TT) decomposition represents multivari-
ate functions by a sequence of lower-dimensional tensor functions (Gorodetsky et al., 2019; Zhou
et al., 2025), and the tensor Tucker decomposition introduces an additional core tensor C to encode
weighted multilinear relationships into SepNNs (Luo et al., 2024):
(TT)
fΘ(x1, · · · , xD) =
R1
X
r1=1
R2
X
r2=1
· · ·
RD−1
X
rD−1=1
(fΘ1(x1))1,r1 (fΘ2(x2))r1,r2 · · · (fΘD(xD))rD−1,1 ,
(Tucker)
fΘ(x1, · · · , xD) = C ×1 fΘ1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D fΘD(xD) : RD →R.
(3)
Here,
C
∈
RR1×···×RD
denotes the core tensor in the Tucker decomposition model,
(R1, · · · , RD) denotes the TT or Tucker rank of the model, ×d : RR1×···×RD × RRd
→
RR1×···×Rd−1×Rd+1×···×RD denotes the tensor product between a tensor and a vector, i.e., C ×d
fΘd(xd) := foldd(unfoldd(C)fΘd(xd)), where fΘd(xd) ∈RRd is the factor output in the Tucker
model, unfoldd : RR1×···×RD →R
Q
d′̸=d Rd′×Rd denotes the unfolding operator from a tensor to a
matrix, and foldd : R
Q
d′̸=d Rd′ →RR1×···×Rd−1×Rd+1×···×RD denotes the folding operator from
a vector to a tensor. The (fθd(xd))rd−1,rd denotes the (rd−1, rd)-th output component of the matrix-
valued univariate function fθd(xd) : R →RRd−1×Rd in the TT model. The aforementioned linear
combinations L can be viewed as speciﬁc instances within the generalized linear Einstein summation
for multi-dimensional array (Ahlander, 2002). Furthermore, nonlinear combinations (e.g., nonlinear
activations (Li et al., 2025b)) can also be considered to enhance the stochasticity among factors.
The efﬁciency advantage of SepNNs comes from its separability nature. Especially, when training
on a D-dimensional grid tensor with each dimension containing n training samples (for instance,
with training inputs of the form {(x1, · · · , xD) | xd = 1, 2, · · · , n, d = 1, · · · , D}, which contains
nD training samples), the SepNN only needs to query nD times of inputs by querying the separated
input xd in each dimension via factor functions and then combining the outputs through the linear
combination L. Hence, the computational complexity of a SepNN scales as O(nD) in an epoch,
compared to O(nD) for a conventional neural network (Cho et al., 2023; Luo et al., 2024). This
2


efﬁciency superiority makes SepNNs advantageous in downstream applications such as INRs (Liang
et al., 2022; Luo et al., 2024) and PINNs (Cho et al., 2023; Vemuri et al., 2025).
While SepNNs have enabled a variety of promising applications, their theoretical foundations re-
main relatively underdeveloped, hindering a deeper understanding of their representation capacity
and optimization behaviors. In this work, we seek to address the following fundamental questions re-
garding the theoretical aspects of SepNNs: 1) Do SepNNs possess sufﬁcient representation capacity
to approximate any continuous multivariate function in Euclidean space? 2) How can we character-
ize the training dynamics of SepNNs and identify any inherent spectral bias during optimization? 3)
How can the spectral bias of SepNNs be mitigated to further enhance training efﬁciency? To address
these fundamental questions, this work makes the following contributions:
• Using a novel combination of Weierstrass-based approximation and universal approxi-
mation theories, we rigorously establish an approximation theorem that SepNNs possess
the capacity to approximate any continuous multivariate function with arbitrary precision,
thereby conﬁrming their representation completeness.
• We derive the neural tangent kernel (NTK) regimes for SepNNs under different asymptotic
conditions. The SepNN’s NTK converges to a deterministic kernel under inﬁnite width and
inﬁnite rank, and converges to a random kernel under inﬁnite width and ﬁxed rank, provid-
ing new insights into the spectral bias characterization and training behavior of SepNNs.
• We further propose a scalable separable preconditioned gradient descent (SepPGD) method
that provably adjusts the eigenvalue distribution of NTK matrix, effectively alleviating
spectral bias of SepNNs. The SepPGD achieves a signiﬁcantly lower computational com-
plexity of O(nD) for nD training samples, which is much more efﬁcient than existing neu-
ral network preconditioning methods. Extensive experiments across various downstream
tasks including kernel ridge regression, image & surface representation using INRs, and
PINNs demonstrate the improved efﬁciency and effectiveness of our SepPGD approach for
alleviating spectral bias of SepNNs.
2
APPROXIMATION THEORY OF SEPNN
Approximation Theory. For any continuous multivariate function f(x1, · · · , xD) deﬁned on a
compact set, it is well-established that standard neural networks such as MLPs with suitable acti-
vation functions can approximate it to arbitrary accuracy (Leshno et al., 1993; Pinkus, 1999)—a
result known as the universal approximation theorem. However, such a universal approximation
theory remains lacking for SepNN structures. To ﬁll this blank, our ﬁrst contribution is to establish
a universal approximation theorem of SepNNs (including CP, TT, and Tucker (2)-(3)) as follows.
Theorem 1 (Universal approximation theorem of multivariate SepNNs). Let X1 ⊂R, X2 ⊂
R, · · · , XD ⊂R and X = X1 × X2 × · · · × XD ⊂RD be any compact sets, and let f(x) : X →R
be a continuous multivariate function where x := (x1, · · · , xD). For any ϵ > 0, the following
statements hold, in which all MLPs are drawn in the set {W2σ(W1x + b) : W2 ∈R ˜
W ×W , W1 ∈
RW ×1, b ∈RW , ˜W, W ∈N+} with σ a non-polynomial function.
(CP) There exist rank R ∈N+ and univariate MLPs fΘd : Xd →RR (d = 1, · · · , D) such that
sup
x∈X
f(x) −
R
X
r=1
(fΘ1(x1))r (fΘ2(x2))r · · · (fΘD(xD))r
 < ϵ.
(TT) There exist ranks R1, · · · , RD−1 ∈N+ and univariate MLPs fΘd : Xd →RRd−1Rd
(d = 1, · · · , D, R0 = RD = 1) such that
sup
x∈X

f(x) −
R1
X
r1=1
R2
X
r2=1
· · ·
RD−1
X
rD−1=1
(fΘ1(x1))1,r1 (fΘ2(x2))r1,r2 · · · (fΘD(xD))rD−1,1

< ϵ.
(Tucker) There exist ranks R1, · · · , RD ∈N+, univariate MLPs fΘd : Xd →RRd (d = 1, · · · , D),
and a core tensor C ∈RR1×···×RD such that
sup
x∈X
f(x) −C ×1 fΘ1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D fΘD(xD)
 < ϵ,
3


where ×d : (RR1×···×RD × RRd) →RR1×···×Rd−1×Rd+1×···×RD denotes the mode-d spe-
ciﬁc product between a tensor and a vector.
The theorem states that any continuous multivariate function on compact sets can be well approxi-
mated by either the CP, TT, or Tucker SepNNs. The detailed proof, which is based on the combina-
tion of Stone-Weierstrass theorem (Fedorova, 2002) and universal approximation theorem (Leshno
et al., 1993), is placed in Appendix Section A.5. We go through the proof sketch as follows.
First, taking the CP SepNN (2) as an example, we consider the associated separable function class:
A =
n
g : X →R : g(x1, · · · , xN) =
R
X
r=1
(g1(x1))r (g2(x2))r · · · (gD(xD))r , R ∈N, (gd(xd))r ∈C(Xd)
o
.
The function class A consists of all separable functions that can be expressed in the CP form, using
the linear combination of vector-valued continuous univariate functions gd(xd) : Xd →RR deﬁned
on compact sets Xd. By slightly extending the classical universal approximation theorem (Leshno
et al., 1993) to vector-valued functions, we show that each gd(xd) can be approximated by an MLP
with non-polynomial activation functions. Hence, for any function in A, there exists a SepNN
that approximates it up to arbitrary precision—a fact that can be formalized by bounding the total
approximation error via the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality across the errors of the factor MLPs.
It therefore remains to show that A is dense in C(X), the space of continuous functions over X. This
would imply that any continuous multivariate function can be approximated arbitrarily well by an
element of A, and consequently by a SepNN. To establish the density of A, we leverage the Stone-
Weierstrass theorem (Fedorova, 2002), which asserts that a function class deﬁned on a compact set
X is dense in C(X) if it: (1) contains the identity function; (2) separates points in X (i.e., for any
a ̸= b in X, there exists g ∈A such that g(a) ̸= g(b)); and (3) is closed under algebraic operations.
We carefully examine that A meets these requirements. By combining this with standard universal
approximation results, we conclude with the universal approximation capacity of SepNNs.
Related Work. (Cho et al., 2023) provided the approximation theory for the bivariate SepNN (1).
Their proof is based on the orthogonal basis functions construction for the tensor product function
space. Compared to this prior art, our approximation theory extends to any multivariate function
approximation with D ≥2 and more types of SepNNs such as TT and Tucker, and includes the
result in (Cho et al., 2023) as a special case when D = 2 for CP SepNN (2). Furthermore, our
proof offers a simpler alternative against (Cho et al., 2023) for the D = 2 case of CP SepNN.
Another work (Yu et al., 2024) deduced the approximation theory for a separable physical-informed
operator network, which is related to the CP SepNN (2). Their proof is based on the separability of
the sine activation function using trigonometric angle addition and universal approximation theory.
Compared to this work, we characterize a more general class of SepNNs using any non-polynomial
activation functions and deduce the approximation error more systematically for various types of
SepNNs. Our proof technique is uniﬁed and broadly applicable to these structures, such as separable
operator network. The SepNN is also closely related to the Kolmogorov-Arnold network (KAN)
(Liu et al., 2025), which represents learnable neurons as weighted summations of independent spline
bases and serves as a fundamental architecture in scientiﬁc applications (Li et al., 2025a). It is a
promising direction to extend the suggested proof technique to KAN approximation and its variants.
3
NTK REGIMES AND SPECTRAL BIAS CHARACTERIZATION
NTK Regimes. While the SepNN is demonstrated to be a universal approximator for multivariate
function representation, its training dynamics remain poorly understood even for classical learn-
ing problems with gradient descent. We borrow the theoretical tools of NTK (Jacot et al., 2018;
Arora et al., 2019a) and aim to characterize the training process of SepNNs via associated kernel
regression. Our main contributions are as follows. First, under the asymptotic regime of inﬁnite
network width and inﬁnite rank, we prove that the NTK of a SepNN—which can be expressed as
the summation over factor MLPs’ NTKs (Lemma 1)—converges to a deterministic kernel (Theorem
2), analogous to known results for standard MLPs (Jacot et al., 2018). This result allows us to char-
4


(a) Initial NTK (ﬁx rank)
(b) Initial NTK
(c) NTK during training
(d) NTK matrix spectrum
Figure 1: SepNN NTK veriﬁcation using ten runs over multiple random seeds for square loss opti-
mization using gradient descent. (a) The difference between NTK matrices in adjacent random seeds
at initialization vs. SepNN width W (under ﬁxed rank R = 50). (b) The difference between NTK
matrices in adjacent random seeds at initialization vs. SepNN width W and rank R (we set W = R).
(c) The difference between NTK matrices at 100 training steps and at initialization over ten random
seeds. (d) The NTK matrix eigenvalue distribution at initialization over ten random seeds.
acterize the convergence rate of wide SepNNs and to identify spectral bias related to the eigenvalue
distribution of the NTK matrix1.
Lemma 1 (NTK of CP SepNN). Let the multivariate CP SepNN be deﬁned as fΘ(x1, · · · , xD) =
1
√
R
PR
r=1 (fΘ1(x1))r (fΘ2(x2))r · · · (fΘD(xD))r : RD →R, where each fΘd : R →RR is a
parametric MLP with parameters Θd, and Θ = (Θ1, · · · , ΘD) is the collection of all parameters.
Then the NTK of fΘ, deﬁned as KΘ(x, x′) := ⟨∇ΘfΘ(x), ∇ΘfΘ(x′)⟩for x = (x1, · · · , xD) and
x′ = (x′
1, · · · , x′
D), is given by
KΘ(x, x′) = 1
R
D
X
d=1
ad(x)⊤KΘd(xd, x′
d)ad(x′),
(4)
where KΘd(xd, x′
d) ∈RR×R is the NTK matrix of the d-th factor MLP fΘd with elements
(KΘd(xd, x′
d))r,s
=

∇Θd (fΘd(xd))r , ∇Θd (fΘd(x′
d))s

, and ad(x) is a vector deﬁned by
ad(x) =
 Q
d′̸=d
 fΘd′(xd′)

1 , Q
d′̸=d
 fΘd′(xd′)

2 , · · · , Q
d′̸=d
 fΘd′(xd′)

R
⊤
∈RR.
Theorem 2 (Deterministic NTK under inﬁnite width and inﬁnite rank). Let the CP SepNN be deﬁned
as fΘ(x1, · · · , xD) =
1
√
R
PR
r=1 (fΘ1(x1))r (fΘ2(x2))r · · · (fΘD(xD))r : RD →R, where each
factor MLP fΘd : R →RR has the architecture fΘd(xd) =
1
√
W W2,dσ(W1,dxd+bd), with W1,d ∈
RW ×1, bd ∈RW , W2,d ∈RR×W , and σ a differentiable activation function with derivative ˙σ. Let
each element of W1,d, bd, W2,d be independently initialized by N(0, 1). Then, as both the width
W →∞and the rank R →∞, the NTK of fΘ converges almost surely to a deterministic kernel
KΘ(x, x′)
a.s.
−→
D
X
d=1
k(xd, x′
d)
Y
d′̸=d
cd′(xd′, x′
d′),
where cd(xd, x′
d)
=
Ew,b∼N(0,1) (σ(wxd + b)σ(wx′
d + b)) and k(xd, x′
d)
=
cd(xd, x′
d) +
Ew,b∼N(0,1) ( ˙σ(wxd + b) ˙σ(wx′
d + b)(xdx′
d + 1)).
Remark 1. The proof of Lemma 1 and Theorem 2 are placed in Appendix Sections A.6-A.7. While
we consider the two-layer MLP in Theorem 2, it is straightforward to extend to multi-layer MLPs or
other network structures by utilizing the corresponding NTK formulations (Arora et al., 2019b).
Remark 2. Using similar arguments to standard NTK analysis (Jacot et al., 2018; Arora et al.,
2019a), it is easy to show that the deterministic NTK of SepNN also stays ﬁxed (in terms of a small
error) during training when W, R →∞(under square loss function and inﬁnitely-small learning
rate). This can be achieved by bounding the difference of NTK at two training time points using
O( 1
√
R) and O(
1
√
W ) related to the small movement of each weight. Such asymptotic analysis of
NTK during training is formally analyzed in Appendix Section A.4.
1For simplicity, the NTK analysis is primarily conducted for the CP SepNN (2), while we believe it can
be readily extended to TT and Tucker SepNNs. For the CP SepNN, we introduce a scaling factor
1
√
R in the
SepNN to ensure the convergence of NTK, which does not affect the universal approximation Theorem 1.
5


Spectral Bias Characterization. Consider training pairs {xi, yi}n
i=1 and square loss minimization:
minΘ 1
2
Pn
i=1(fΘ(xi) −yi)2 with fΘ a CP SepNN. Using the same argument as classical NTK
analysis (Jacot et al., 2018; Arora et al., 2019a), under inﬁnitely small learning rate, the dynamics
of network predictions u(t) = (fΘ(t)(x1), · · · , fΘ(t)(xn))⊤∈Rn under standard gradient descent
optimizer would follow du(t)
dt
= −K(t)(u(t) −y), where Θ(t) and K(t) ∈Rn×n respectively
denote the weights and NTK matrix of the SepNN at training time t over training samples {xi}
(i.e., (K(t))i,j = KΘ(xi, xj)), and y = (y1, · · · , yn)⊤. If the NTK of the SepNN stays ﬁxed
during training (as is expected for SepNNs with sufﬁciently large width and rank), the dynamics
become du(t)
dt
= −K(u(t) −y) where K denotes the ﬁxed NTK matrix. Denote the eigenvalue
decomposition of K as K = Pn
i=1 λiviv⊤
i , where λ1 ≥· · · ≥λn ≥0 are eigenvalue and
v1, · · · , vn are orthogonal eigenvectors. Multiplying both sides by vi, we obtain
d
dt
 v⊤
i u(t)

=
−v⊤
i K(u(t) −y) = −λi
 v⊤
i (u(t) −y)

. This differential equation has an analytical solution:
v⊤
i (u(t) −y) = exp (−λit)

v⊤
i (u(0) −y)

.
(5)
Hence, the training error (u(t)−y) and its convergence rate can be characterized by the eigenvalues
of the NTK matrix. Note that {vi} form an orthogonal basis, hence (u(t) −y) = Pn
i=1 v⊤
i (u(t) −
y). Each term v⊤
i (u(t) −y) decays exponentially due to the exp (−λit) term in (5), driving the
total training error (u(t) −y) converging to zero as well. The components of labels y that project
onto the eigenvectors vi with larger eigenvalue λi converge faster than those correspond to smaller
eigenvalues due to the exp (−λit) term, a property known as the spectral bias of neural networks
trained with gradient descent (Geifman et al., 2024; Shi et al., 2025; 2024). This indicates that
convergence is slower along directions corresponding to smaller eigenvalues, often requiring more
training steps if the condition number of NTK matrix is large. The NTK-based convergence rate
applies to SepNNs as well, hence SepNNs also exhibit inherent spectral bias due to the uneven
eigenvalue distribution of the NTK matrix (Fig. 1(d)). In Section 4, we introduce an efﬁcient
SepPGD method to alleviate spectral bias in SepNNs by adjusting the eigenvalue distribution.
Random NTK Under Fixed Rank. In practice, the rank R of SepNNs is often chosen to be smaller
compared to network width to promote low-dimensional representations and better generalization
(Liang et al., 2022; Luo et al., 2024). Therefore, we further consider the ﬁxed rank and inﬁnite width
asymptotic regime, and prove that the NTK converges to a stochastic kernel deﬁned by Gaussian
processes associated with the covariance of factor MLPs. This indicates that inﬁnite rank R is
necessary to obtain a deterministic NTK by applying the large number law to vanish the covariance.
Corollary 1 (Random NTK under inﬁnite width and ﬁxed rank). Let the CP SepNN be deﬁned as
fΘ(x1, · · · , xD) =
1
√
R
PR
r=1 (fΘ1(x1))r (fΘ2(x2))r · · · (fΘD(xD))r : RD →R and the assump-
tions in Theorem 2 hold. Then, for a ﬁxed rank R, as the width of the factor MLP W →∞, the NTK
of the SepNN fΘ converges in distribution to a stochastic kernel
KΘ(x, x′)
d
−→
D
X
d=1
k(xd, x′
d)Vd(x, x′),
where Vd(x, x′) =
1
R
PR
r=1
Q
d′̸=d
 fΘd′(xd′)

r
 fΘd′(x′
d′)

r, in which each factor
 fΘd′(xd′)

r
is a Gaussian process with covariance E(
 fΘd′(xd′)

r
 fΘd′(x′
d′)

r) = cd(xd′, x′
d′).
Remark 3. Under the ﬁxed rank condition, the training dynamic can not be characterized uniformly
using a ﬁxed NTK matrix as in (5) due to the randomness. However, the random NTK can at
least characterize the training dynamic within a small range of training time around t by using
the potential stochastic differential equation and probability bound, which are promising future
directions. We also empirically ﬁnd that even with small rank, the proposed SepPGD method is
effective in accelerating convergence and alleviating spectral bias in SepNNs (Appendix Table 3).
All NTK theoretical results are empirically validated in Fig. 1. Fig. 1(a) shows that under a ﬁxed
rank R, the NTK at initialization does not converge to a ﬁxed kernel and holds randomness even
with larger network width (Corollary 1). Fig. 1(b) shows that the NTK at initialization tends to
converge towards a deterministic kernel with joint increase of network width and decomposition
rank (Theorem 2). Fig. 1(c) shows that the NTK tends to stay ﬁxed during training with joint
increase of network width and decomposition rank (Remark 2). Finally, Fig. 1(d) illustrates the
6


spectral bias that the eigenvalues of the SepNN’s NTK matrix decay rapidly, resulting in slower
convergence within components that project onto eigenvectors of these smaller eigenvalues.
Another positive property of SepNN is that its NTK matrix can be computed in parallel over multiple
inputs, resulting in greater efﬁciency compared to computing the NTK matrices of other neural
architectures (Novak et al., 2022; Mohamadi et al., 2023). In fact, the SepNN’s NTK (12) admits an
elegant form that allows the NTK matrix over grid inputs to be expressed as a Kronecker product of
smaller NTK matrices (detailed in Appendix Section A.3), thereby improving efﬁciency.
4
EFFICIENT SEPARABLE PRECONDITIONED GRADIENT DESCENT
Prior Arts. The NTK-based preconditioning methods are proposed in recent works (Geifman et al.,
2024; Shi et al., 2025), which adjust the eigenvalue distribution of the NTK matrix, thereby mod-
ulating the convergence rate. Especially, consider a D-dimensional data grid and nD training la-
bels sorted in a vector y ∈RnD, and the vector of network predictions fΘ(X) ∈RnD, where
X ∈RD×nD are batched inputs. The training residual is r = fΘ(X) −y and the square loss is
∥r∥2
ℓ2. Then, a gradient descent iteration with learning rate η is given by Θ ←Θ −η∇ΘfΘ(X)⊤r.
According to (5), the convergence rate is related to the spectrum of NTK matrix, denoted by
K here. (Geifman et al., 2024) proposed the following PGD with a preconditioning matrix S:
Θ ←Θ −η∇ΘfΘ(X)⊤Sr. In this way, the convergence rate is related to the eigenvalues of KS.
Hence, the preconditioner S ∈RnD×nD is constructed to modulate the spectrum of KS so as to
improve convergence (Geifman et al., 2024). For nD training samples, this method has complexity
O(nD) by applying S. Later, (Shi et al., 2025) leveraged this method to alleviate the spectral bias
of INRs. They reduced the complexity of NTK matrix application by sampling a mini-batch, which
enjoys O(nD/p) complexity with p > 1 denoting the number of mini-batches. Their precondi-
tioning method can be expressed as Θ ←Θ −η∇ΘfΘ(Xi)⊤Siri, where Xi, Si, ri are sampled
mini-batches. Different from these methods, our SepPGD applies smaller preconditioners separately
for factor MLPs, further reducing computational complexity.
SepPGD and Properties. We ﬁrst elaborate the training conﬁguration of SepNNs for square loss
optimization on grid points2. SepNNs exhibit efﬁciency beneﬁts when applied to separable grid
points (Liang et al., 2022; Cho et al., 2023). We therefore consider input points situated on a grid
ˆx1 × · · · × ˆxD = {(x1, · · · , xD) | xd ∈ˆxd, d = 1, · · · , D} ⊂RD, where each ˆxd is a discrete
set (or say vector) of points in R. For simplicity, we assume that each ˆxd has cardinality n, meaning
each dimension contains n training samples, resulting in a total of nD training samples. Consider a
SepNN fΘ(x) =
1
√
R
PR
r=1 (fΘ1(x1))r · · · (fΘD(xD))r : RD →R. Each factor MLP fΘd : R →
RR is applied in parallel to the input vector ˆxd ∈Rn, yielding a factor matrix fΘd(ˆxd) ∈RR×n.
The corresponding optimization model is formulated as
min
Θ
1
2
nD
X
i=1
(fΘ(xi) −yi)2, xi ∈ˆx1 × · · · × ˆxD.
(6)
Owing to the grid structure of the training data, the labels {yi}nD
i=1 can be naturally reshaped into a
D-th order tensor Y ∈Rn×···×n. Let R := (ZΘ −Y) ∈Rn×···×n denote the residual tensor during
training, where (ZΘ)i1,··· ,iD = fΘ((ˆx1)i1, · · · , (ˆxD)iD) is the (i1, · · · , iD)-th SepNN output.
The motivation behind SepPGD is to perform PGD for each factor MLP separately. We ﬁrst compute
D factor preconditioning matrices {Sd}D
d=1 for the D factor MLPs {fΘd}D
d=1. This involves calcu-
lating a pseudo NTK matrix KΘd ∈Rn×n for each fΘd on the corresponding input data ˆxd ∈Rn
using sum-of-logits (Mohamadi et al., 2023), followed by eigenvalue modulation as described in
(Geifman et al., 2024; Shi et al., 2025). Speciﬁcally, we calculate Sd = I −Pk
i=1(1 −g(λi)
λi )viv⊤
i ,
where {λi, vi} are eigenvalues and eigenvectors of KΘd. We set the modulation function g(λi) =
λk for i ≤k and g(λi) = λi for i > k by following (Shi et al., 2025), which makes the eigenvalues
2Using grid inputs is a common training conﬁguration for SepNNs, such as coordinate grids of images in
INRs (Liang et al., 2022) and grid collocation points in PINNs (Cho et al., 2023), which facilitate efﬁcient
parallel training. For non-grid inputs, SepNNs remain applicable, though the computational complexity for
NTK evaluation and SepPGD becomes equivalent to standard networks (Liang et al., 2022; Cho et al., 2023).
7


of Sd more evenly distributed for the ﬁrst k eigenvalues. Furthermore, denote ⊕the concatenation
of vectors. We are now ready to present the proposed SepPGD algorithm.
Deﬁnition 1 (Separable PGD). Consider the optimization problem (6) and the SepNN fΘ(x) =
1
√
R
PR
r=1 (fΘ1(x1))r · · · (fΘD(xD))r : RD →R. Given D symmetric factor preconditioning
matrices {Sd ∈Rn×n}D
d=1 for factor MLPs {fΘd}D
d=1, the SepPGD iteration is given by
Θ ←Θ −η
D
M
d=1
(∇Θd⟨fΘd(ˆxd), Md⟩)
|
{z
}
gradient of factor MLP
,
(7)
where Md is the mode-d speciﬁc preconditioner deﬁned by
Md =
 
R
M
r=1
O
d′̸=d
fΘd′ (ˆxd′)r,:
|
{z
}
R×nD−1
! 
unfoldd
 D
X
d=1
(R ×d Sd)
!
|
{z
}
nD−1×n
!
∈RR×n, d = 1, · · · , D,
(8)
where the subscript fΘd′(ˆxd′)r,: refers to the r-th row of the factor matrix fΘd′(ˆxd′) ∈RR×n. The
N
d′̸=d refers to the outer product that calculates between D −1 vectors {fΘd′(ˆxd′)r,: ∈R1×n}
and returns a single long vector of size 1 × nD−1, and LR
r=1 denotes the concatenation between R
vectors and returns an R × nD−1 matrix. The unfoldd : Rn1×···×nD →R
Q
d′̸=d nd′×nd denotes
the unfolding operator from a tensor to a matrix, and ×d denotes the mode-d tensor-matrix product,
a convention in tensor decomposition literature (Kolda & Bader, 2009; Luo et al., 2024).
Remark 4 (Computational complexity). The computational complexity comparison of different pre-
conditioning methods is given in Table 1. In terms of applying the preconditioner, SepPGD scales
as O(nD) by multiplying D n-by-n preconditioning matrices {Md}, while standard NTK-based
method (Geifman et al., 2024) scales as O(nD) by multiplying an nD-by-nD preconditioning ma-
trix S. Moreover, the preconditioner construction stage in SepPGD is also more efﬁcient. Speciﬁ-
cally, SepPGD constructs the preconditioner by calculating the NTK matrix and performing eigen-
value decomposition for D factor NTK matrices {KΘd}, each of size n × n. In contrast, classical
NTK-based PGD (Geifman et al., 2024) requires the same operations on a single large NTK ma-
trix of size nD × nD. Therefore, the preconditioner construction complexity for SepPGD scales as
O(D(n3 + n2P)) (note that NTK matrix calculation consumes O(n2P) and eigenvalue decompo-
sition consumes O(n3))3, where P is the number of network parameters, while the classical NTK-
based PGD method scales as O(n3D + n2DP). We therefore see that SepPGD is more efﬁcient in
both preconditioner construction and application.
Table 1: Computational complexity comparison (in terms of applying the preconditioner) of several
preconditioning methods for nD training samples using an over-parameterized SepNN fΘ : RD →
R with P learnable parameters (nD < P). Here, r denotes training residual, H ∈RP ×P denotes
the Hessian matrix, S ∈RnD×nD denotes the NTK-based preconditioning matrix, Si ∈R
nD
p × nD
p
denotes the mini-batch version of the NTK preconditioning matrix, and Md ∈RR×n denotes the
proposed mode-d speciﬁc preconditioner deﬁned in (8).
Preconditioning method
Gradient formulation
Complexity
Hessian-based methods
H−1∇ΘfΘ(X)⊤r
O(P)
Modiﬁed NTK spectrum (Geifman et al., 2024)
∇ΘfΘ(X)⊤Sr
O(nD) (nD < P)
Inductive gradient adjustment (Shi et al., 2025)
∇ΘfΘ(Xi)⊤Siri (mini-batch)
O(nD/p) (p > 1)
Separable PGD (Ours)
LD
d=1 ∇Θd⟨fΘd(ˆxd), Md⟩
O(nD)
While the formulations in (7)-(8) seem complicated, we can more easily interpret the motivation and
preconditioner construction Md in the two-dimensional case D = 2 by connecting it with classical
methods (Geifman et al., 2024; Shi et al., 2025).
3Note that constructing the preconditioner in (8) also involves a matrix product with complexity O(nD−1).
However, the primary computational cost of NTK-based PGD lies in the computation of the NTK matrix, which
requires high-dimensional derivative calculations, and the eigenvalue decomposition of the NTK matrix, which
involves inner numerical iterations (Geifman et al., 2024; Shi et al., 2025). In comparison, the matrix product
in (8) is orders of magnitude less expensive in practice.
8


(a) Kernel ridge regression                                                            (b) Image representation
(a) Kernel ridge regression                                                            (b) Image representation
Figure 2: Convergence curves for KRR and image representation using INRs.
Lemma 2. Let the SepNN be fΘ(x) = fΘ1(x1)⊤fΘ2(x2) : R2 →R and the suppositions in
Deﬁnition 1 hold. Then the SepPGD iteration in (7) is equivalent to the classical NTK-based PGD
as Θ ←Θ−η∇ΘfΘ(X)⊤˜Sr, where X ∈R2×n2 are batched inputs, r = vec(R⊤) is the vectored
training residual, and ˜S = (S1 ⊗In + In ⊗S2) ∈Rn2×n2 is constructed by Kronecker product.
Speciﬁcally, this implies [∇Θ1⟨fΘ1(ˆx1), M1⟩, ∇Θ2⟨fΘ2(ˆx2), M2⟩] = ∇ΘfΘ(X)⊤˜Sr.
The proof is provided in Appendix Section A.9. Lemma 2 establishes the connection between
the proposed SepPGD method (7) and the classical NTK-based PGD (Geifman et al., 2024; Shi
et al., 2025) under an appropriate choice of the large preconditioner ˜S. Although the two PGD
methods are equivalent in this setting, SepPGD is computationally more efﬁcient.
This efﬁ-
ciency comes from the parallel computation of factor gradients. Speciﬁcally, the total gradient
∇ΘfΘ(X)⊤˜Sr can be written in the form of outer products like (C⊤⊗A)vec(B) (see Section
A.9), whereas the factor gradients {∇Θd⟨fΘd(ˆxd), Md⟩}D
d=1 in SepPGD are computed via matrix
products like vec(ABC) in the O(n) dimensional space. This is more efﬁcient than evaluating
the matrix product (C⊤⊗A)vec(B) in the O(n2) dimension. The key property we are using
here is the equivalence between the Kronecker product expression and the vectorized matrix prod-
uct, i.e., (C⊤⊗A)vec(B) = vec(ABC). This allows us to decompose the large preconditioner
˜S ∈Rn2×n2 into smaller preconditioners Md ∈Rn×n and perform the SepPGD in an efﬁcient
manner. Lemma 2 can also be extended to non-grid inputs. Especially, if we construct the precondi-
tioner as ˜S = P
d Sd, then the SepPGD gradient ∇Θd⟨fΘd((X)d,:), Md⟩for some non-grid inputs
X ∈RD×n (n non-grid points in D-dimensional space) is equivalent to the classical NTK-based
PGD update ∇ΘfΘ(X)T ˜Sr under element-wise evaluation without Kronecker product structure.
Here, Md = einsum(⊙d′̸=dfΘ′
d((X)d′,:), P
d Sdr; (R, n) × (n) →(R, n)) is the d-th precondi-
tioner constructed by Einstein product, where ⊙denotes element-wise product. We use this formu-
lation to test SepPGD for non-grid inputs; see Section A.2.
Given the equivalence between SepPGD and NTK-based PGD (Geifman et al., 2024), it therefore
remains to show that the constructed preconditioner ˜S = (S1 ⊗In + In ⊗S2) is indeed effective
in adjusting the eigenvalue distribution of K ˜S to accelerate convergence. This can possibly be
veriﬁed, because the eigenvalue of a Kronecker product matrix S1⊗In is the product of eigenvalues
of S1 and In. Therefore, ˜S would have better spectrum (i.e., smaller condition number) than ˜
K =
(KΘ1 ⊗In + In ⊗KΘ2) since Sd has better spectrum than KΘd. Suppose that ˜
K is close to the
true NTK matrix K (which can be veriﬁed using the NTK matrix formulation in Lemma 3). We
can ultimately show that K ˜S has better spectrum than K. Therefore, the proposed SepPGD could
provably and efﬁciently adjust the spectrum of the SepNN’s NTK matrix during training, effectively
alleviating spectral bias. In practice, SepPGD allows the preconditioner {Md} to be efﬁciently
updated every ten iterations, which is computationally expensive in previous methods. It is believed
that the result in Lemma 2 (and the analysis following) can be readily extended to multivariate cases
D > 2. Also, based on the convergence result of NTK-based preconditioning algorithm (Geifman
et al., 2024), we can also deduce the convergence and solution consistency (w.r.t. standard gradient
descent) of our SepPGD algorithm by using the equivalence between SepPGD and the corresponding
kernel ridge regression with representer theorem. This is left for future research.
5
NUMERICAL EXPERIMENTS
The numerical results are presented to verify the effectiveness of SepPGD for improving conver-
gence of SepNNs. Examples include kernel ridge regression (KRR), image and surface representa-
tion using INRs, and PINNs. Detailed experimental settings are placed in Appendix Section A.12.
9


Original
MLP
SepNN
SepNN (SepPGD)
Original
MLP
SepNN
SepNN (SepPGD)
PSNR Inf
PSNR 26.64
PSNR 26.48
PSNR 33.30
IoU 1.0
IoU 0.985
IoU 0.983
IoU 0.992
Figure 3: Visual results for image and 3D surface representation using SepPGD.
(a) Convergence curves                         (b) Ground-truth                                    (c) PINN                           (d) Separable PINN           (e) Separable PINN (SepPGD)
y
            MSE 0                                           MSE 0.092                                 MSE 0.042                                 MSE 0.037                   
(a) Convergence curves                         (b) Ground-truth                                    (c) PINN                           (d) Separable PINN           (e) Separable PINN (SepPGD)
y
            MSE 0                                           MSE 0.092                                 MSE 0.042                                 MSE 0.037                   
Figure 4: Convergence curves and results for the 3D diffusion equation using PINNs.
KRR. Following (Geifman et al., 2024), we perform KRR by using the gradients of neural network
w.r.t. parameters as the feature function of kernel (see Appendix Section A.12 for detailed formu-
lation and settings). We test both MLP and CP SepNN, and compare SepPGD with the classical
NTK-based PGD, the modiﬁed spectrum kernel (MSK) (Geifman et al., 2024; Shi et al., 2025). Fol-
lowing (Geifman et al., 2024), we consider both noisy (standard deviation 0.01) and noiseless cases.
The convergence behavior, measured by testing MSE during training, is shown in Fig. 2(a). Because
the efﬁciency advantage of SepNN and SepPGD comes from the lower complexity in an iteration,
we plot the convergence curve w.r.t. execution time rather than iteration number. In noiseless case,
SepPGD achieves the fastest convergence. In the presence of noise, SepPGD remains robust, while
MSK has slower convergence. SepPGD improves SepNN to a large margin as shown in Fig. 2.
Image Representation and Recovery. We leverage INR for image representation and recovery
(inpainting) by following the settings in (Sitzmann et al., 2020; Shi et al., 2025). Convergence curves
and representation visual examples are shown in Fig. 2(b) and Fig. 3’s left. SepPGD effectively
improves the convergence of SepNN by alleviating spectral bias and better capturing image ﬁne
details. Moreover, SepPGD accelerates the convergence without affecting the model’s generalization
(in most cases improving generalization); see image inpainting results in Appendix Fig. 10.
Surface Representation. We perform surface representation by representing the volumetric occu-
pancy grids of a 3D surface using INRs (Shi et al., 2025). The results (under the same iteration num-
ber) with intersection over union (IoU) are shown in Fig. 3’s right. SepPGD effectively improves the
ability of SepNN to capture surface textures and details by alleviating spectral bias during training.
PINNs. We use the separable PINN (Cho et al., 2023) (CP SepNN) and perform the tests on 3D
diffusion, Klein-Gordon, and Helmholtz equations using grid samples. Convergence curves using
testing MSE vs. time and visual examples (under the same iteration) are shown in Fig. 4. More
results are shown in Appendix Figs. 13-14. The separable PINN (Cho et al., 2023) is more efﬁcient
than classical PINN, and SepPGD further enhances the convergence speed of separable PINN.
6
CONCLUSIONS AND DISCUSSIONS
We established the universal approximation theory for SepNNs, deduced their NTK regimes, and
proposed an efﬁcient separable PGD to alleviate spectral bias of SepNNs. The algorithm was shown
to be effective in various applications such as image & surface representation and PINNs. We fur-
ther elaborate on the potential impact of our proposed theory and method. First, SepNNs have been
attracting growing attention in various applications due to their efﬁcient structure, such as INRs and
PINNs. Numerical experiments demonstrate that SepPGD can effectively speed up convergence in
applications involving INRs and PINNs (e.g., in image and surface representation and numerical
PDEs). Therefore, we believe that our theory and the corresponding algorithm have the potential to
beneﬁt these ﬁelds and address related challenges. Moreover, SepNNs are also increasingly being
adopted across diverse scientiﬁc domains by leveraging their efﬁcient structure and interpretability
(Cho et al., 2023; Song et al., 2023; Chen et al., 2025). Therefore, understanding the theoretical ap-
proximation ability, training behavior (e.g., NTK regime), and addressing the potential optimization
challenge of SepNNs are believed to be valuable and important for these practical applications.
10


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work is supported by the Fundamental and Interdisciplinary Disciplines Breakthrough Plan of
the Ministry of Education of China (JYB2025XDXM101), the NSFC (No. 124B2029, 62476214),
and the Tianyuan Fund for Mathematics of the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant
No. 12426105). We thank the anonymous reviewers for the constructive and valuable comments.
REFERENCES
K. Ahlander. Einstein summation for multidimensional arrays. Computers & Mathematics with
Applications, 44(8):1007–1017, 2002.
Sanjeev Arora, Simon Du, Wei Hu, Zhiyuan Li, and Ruosong Wang.
Fine-grained analysis of
optimization and generalization for overparameterized two-layer neural networks. In Proceedings
of the 36th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), volume 97, pp. 322–332,
2019a.
Sanjeev Arora, Simon S. Du, Wei Hu, Zhiyuan Li, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Ruosong Wang. On
exact computation with an inﬁnitely wide neural net. In Proceedings of the 33rd International
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), pp. 8141–8150, 2019b.
Liliana Borcea, Josselin Garnier, Alexander V. Mamonov, and J¨orn Zimmerling. When data driven
reduced order modeling meets full waveform inversion. SIAM Review, 66(3):501–532, 2024.
Anpei Chen, Zexiang Xu, Andreas Geiger, Jingyi Yu, and Hao Su. TensoRF: Tensorial radiance
ﬁelds. In 17th European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), pp. 333–350, 2022.
Ruihua Chen, Bangyu Wu, Meng Li, and Yisi Luo. Full-waveform inversion with velocity model
low-rank implicit neural representation. IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing,
63:1–16, 2025. doi: 10.1109/TGRS.2025.3594184.
Junwoo Cho, Seungtae Nam, Hyunmo Yang, Seok-Bae Yun, Youngjoon Hong, and Eunbyung Park.
Separable physics-informed neural networks. In Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems, pp. 23761–23788, 2023.
Sven Dummer, Nicola Strisciuglio, and Christoph Brune. Rda-inr: Riemannian diffeomorphic au-
toencoding via implicit neural representations. SIAM Journal on Imaging Sciences, 17(4):2302–
2330, 2024.
V. P. Fedorova. The Stone–Weierstrass Theorem and Spaces of Measures, volume 72, pp. 417–427.
Springer, 2002.
Amnon Geifman, Daniel Barzilai, Ronen Basri, and Meirav Galun. Controlling the inductive bias
of wide neural networks by modifying the kernel’s spectrum. Transactions on Machine Learning
Research, 2024. ISSN 2835-8856.
Alex Gorodetsky, Sertac Karaman, and Youssef Marzouk. A continuous analogue of the tensor-train
decomposition. Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering, 347:59–84, 2019.
Yicheng Li Qian Lin Jun S. Liu Haobo Zhang, Jianfa Lai. Towards a statistical understanding of
neural networks: Beyond the neural tangent kernel theories. arXiv:2412.18756, 2024.
Russell L. Herman. Generalized fourier series and function spaces. In An Introduction to Fourier
Analysis. Chapman and Hall/CRC, 2016.
Arthur Jacot, Franck Gabriel, and Clement Hongler. Neural tangent kernel: Convergence and gen-
eralization in neural networks. In S. Bengio, H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, K. Grauman, N. Cesa-
Bianchi, and R. Garnett (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 31,
2018.
Nikos Kargas and Nicholas D. Sidiropoulos. Supervised learning and canonical decomposition of
multivariate functions. IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 69:1097–1107, 2021.
11


Patrick Kidger and Terry Lyons. Universal Approximation with Deep Narrow Networks. In Pro-
ceedings of Thirty Third Conference on Learning Theory, volume 125, pp. 2306–2327, 2020.
Diederik Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. In International
Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2015.
Tamara G. Kolda and Brett W. Bader. Tensor decompositions and applications. SIAM Review, 51
(3):455–500, 2009.
Jaehoon Lee, Yasaman Bahri, Roman Novak, Sam Schoenholz, Jeffrey Pennington, and Jascha Sohl-
dickstein. Deep neural networks as gaussian processes. In International Conference on Learning
Representations (ICLR), 2018.
S. Lee, G. Wolberg, and S.Y. Shin. Scattered data interpolation with multilevel b-splines. IEEE
Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 3(3):228–244, 1997. doi: 10.1109/2945.
620490.
Moshe Leshno, Vladimir Ya. Lin, Allan Pinkus, and Shimon Schocken. Multilayer feedforward net-
works with a nonpolynomial activation function can approximate any function. Neural Networks,
6(6):861–867, 1993.
Longlong Li, Yipeng Zhang, Guanghui Wang, and Kelin Xia. Kolmogorov-arnold graph neural
networks for molecular property prediction. Nature Machine Intelligence, 7:1346–1354, 2025a.
Yanyi Li, Xi Zhang, Yisi Luo, and Deyu Meng. Deep rank-one tensor functional factorization for
multi-dimensional data recovery. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelli-
gence, volume 39, pp. 18539–18547, 2025b.
Yicheng Li, Zixiong Yu, Guhan Chen, and Qian Lin. On the eigenvalue decay rates of a class of
neural-network related kernel functions deﬁned on general domains. Journal of Machine Learning
Research, 25(1):3977 – 4023, 2024.
Ruofan Liang, Hongyi Sun, and Nandita Vijaykumar. CoordX: Accelerating implicit neural repre-
sentation with a split MLP architecture. In International Conference on Learning Representations
(ICLR), 2022.
Chaoyue Liu, Libin Zhu, and Mikhail Belkin. On the linearity of large non-linear models: when
and why the tangent kernel is constant. In Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on
Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 15954 – 15964, 2020.
Xingyi Liu and Keshab K. Parhi. Tensor decomposition for model reduction in neural networks: A
review. IEEE Circuits and Systems Magazine, 23(2):8–28, 2023.
Ziming Liu, Yixuan Wang, Sachin Vaidya, Fabian Ruehle, James Halverson, Marin Soljacic,
Thomas Y. Hou, and Max Tegmark. KAN: Kolmogorov-Arnold networks. In The Thirteenth
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025.
Yisi Luo, Xile Zhao, Zhemin Li, Michael K. Ng, and Deyu Meng. Low-rank tensor function rep-
resentation for multi-dimensional data recovery.
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and
Machine Intelligence, 46(5):3351–3369, 2024.
Mohamad Amin Mohamadi, Wonho Bae, and Danica J. Sutherland. A fast, well-founded approxi-
mation to the empirical neural tangent kernel. In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference
on Machine Learning, pp. 25061–25081, 2023.
Roman Novak, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, and Samuel S Schoenholz. Fast ﬁnite width neural tangent
kernel. In Proceedings of the 39th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 162,
pp. 17018–17044, 2022.
Allan Pinkus. Approximation theory of the MLP model in neural networks. Acta Numerica, 8:
143–195, 1999. doi: 10.1017/S0962492900002919.
Ali Rahimi and Benjamin Recht. Random features for large-scale kernel machines. In Proceedings
of the 21st International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 1177–1184,
2007.
12


Vishwanath Saragadam, Daniel LeJeune, Jasper Tan, Guha Balakrishnan, Ashok Veeraraghavan,
and Richard G. Baraniuk. Wire: Wavelet implicit neural representations. In 2023 IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 18507–18516, 2023.
Kexuan Shi, Xingyu Zhou, and Shuhang Gu. Improved implicit neural representation with fourier
reparameterized training. In 2024 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-
nition (CVPR), pp. 25985–25994, 2024.
Kexuan Shi, Hai Chen, Leheng Zhang, and Shuhang Gu. Inductive gradient adjustment for spectral
bias in implicit neural representations. In The Forty-Second International Conference on Machine
Learning, 2025.
Vincent Sitzmann, Julien Martel, Alexander Bergman, David Lindell, and Gordon Wetzstein. Im-
plicit neural representations with periodic activation functions. In International Conference on
Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 33, pp. 7462–7473, 2020.
Tianci Song, Charles Broadbent, and Rui Kuang. GNTD: reconstructing spatial transcriptomes with
graph-guided neural tensor decomposition informed by spatial and functional relations. Nature
Communications, 14:8276, 2023.
Matthew Tancik, Pratul Srinivasan, Ben Mildenhall, Sara Fridovich-Keil, Nithin Raghavan, Utkarsh
Singhal, Ravi Ramamoorthi, Jonathan Barron, and Ren Ng. Fourier features let networks learn
high frequency functions in low dimensional domains. In International Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems, volume 33, pp. 7537–7547, 2020.
Alexander Tsigler and Peter L. Bartlett. Benign overﬁtting in ridge regression. Journal of Machine
Learning Research, 24(123):1–76, 2023.
Sai Karthikeya Vemuri, Tim B¨uchner, Julia Niebling, and Joachim Denzler.
Functional tensor
decompositions for physics-informed neural networks. In International Conference on Pattern
Recognition, pp. 32–46, 2025.
Ting Wang, Zipei Yan, Jizhou Li, Xile Zhao, Chao Wang, and Michael Ng. Hyperspectral and
multispectral image fusion with arbitrary resolution through self-supervised representations. In-
ternational Journal of Computer Vision, 2025. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11263-025-02540-1.
Xinling Yu, Sean Hooten, Ziyue Liu, Yequan Zhao, Marco Fiorentino, Thomas Van Vaerenbergh,
and Zheng Zhang. Separable operator networks. Transactions on Machine Learning Research,
2024. ISSN 2835-8856.
Haoxuan Yuan, Zhe Chen, Zheng Lin, Jinbo Peng, Yuhang Zhong, Xuanjie Hu, Songyan Xue, Wei
Li, and Yue Gao. Constructing 4D radio map in LEO satellite networks with limited samples. In
IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM), 2025.
Ting-Wei Zhou, Xi-Le Zhao, Wei-Hao Wu, Jian-Li Wang, and Yi-Si Luo. Frequency-aware implicit
neural representation for multi-dimensional data recovery. IEEE Transactions on Circuits and
Systems for Video Technology, 2025. doi=10.1109/TCSVT.2025.3575475.
A
APPENDIX
A.1
MORE DISCUSSIONS
A.1.1
EFFICIENCY ADVANTAGE OF SEPNNS
We make more discussions on the efﬁciency advantage of SepNNs. The computational advantage of
SepNNs is most relevant in certain structured settings, and does not directly imply faster training in
all scenarios compared to architectures like convolutional neural networks (CNNs). We would like
to clarify that SepNNs are primarily designed for problems where the input is a set of coordinate
points on a grid, such as in INRs and PINNs. In these cases, the input is not a high-dimensional
signal like an image, but rather a low-dimensional coordinate space. CNNs, while highly efﬁcient
for image-like data through localized convolution and parallelism, are less naturally suited to such
13


coordinate-based inputs, as they rely on spatial locality and translation invariance, which may not
align with the structure of the problem. In contrast, SepNNs exploit the separable structure of the
grid to reduce the number of unique function evaluations from O(nD) (as in a standard MLP applied
naively to all grid points) to O(nD), resulting in faster training on grid coordinate points. This
makes SepNNs particularly advantageous in training coordinate networks on grids, such as image
representation using INRs and evaluating grid collocation points in PINNs. Therefore, the beneﬁts
of SepNNs are most pronounced in these structured settings.
From a mathematical perspective, the theory may inspire several promising future research direc-
tions. SepNNs are inherently related to decomposition-based algebraic structures such as nonnega-
tive matrix factorization (NMF) and tensor decomposition. Therefore, our NTK analysis for SepNNs
provides a theoretical tool to bridge neural network optimization with classical NMF, tensor decom-
position, and related scientiﬁc computing topics. Furthermore, the NTK theory can be naturally
extended to separable operator learning (Cho et al., 2023), providing a theoretical tool for learning
mappings between function spaces. Moreover, based on the NTK analysis, another future research
line is to study adaptive feature learning regime (Haobo Zhang, 2024) induced by SepNNs, which is
particularly interesting for SepNNs since they can learn disentangled representations, making them
suited to extract interpretable features from multimodal data.
A.1.2
DISCUSSIONS ON THEORETICAL ANALYSIS
Our current theoretical analysis establishes the universal approximation capability of SepNNs and
does not yet provide explicit approximation error rates in terms of network rank or width. In future
work, we can consider function spaces spanned by Fourier bases and leveraging the decay properties
of Fourier coefﬁcients (Herman, 2016) to derive approximation error bounds with respect to the
rank, in order to provide theoretical guidance for practical rank selection. This could be achieved by
formulating the Fourier expansion in the SepNN form (Kargas & Sidiropoulos, 2021). Moreover, we
can try to characterize the approximation ability of SepNNs w.r.t. width by borrowing approximation
theory for narrow neural networks (Kidger & Lyons, 2020) in future research.
While this work considers the CP-type SepNN (which is the most classical SepNN type) to perform
the NTK analysis, we believe the NTK analysis can be extended to TT- and Tucker-type SepNNs in
a similar fashion. For TT-type SepNNs, the derivation would closely follow CP, relying on tensor
products of NTKs corresponding to factor MLPs. For Tucker-type SepNNs, analogous NTK results
are also expected to hold, provided the asymptotic behavior and boundedness of the core tensor C
are appropriately treated. We regard this extension as a valuable direction for future research.
Our current theoretical analysis does not yet provide comprehensive convergence guarantees or
generalization error bounds for the ﬁxed-rank regime. Such analysis is crucial for a deeper un-
derstanding of the training and generalization behaviors of SepNNs. Still, we believe the present
theoretical framework offers a valuable initial insight, as it establishes a convergence analysis for
SepNNs under inﬁnite rank regime. In fact, by applying probability bounds related to the law of
large numbers with respect to the rank parameter R, we anticipate that an ϵ-convergence bound on
the training residual could be derived for a ﬁxed rank R = O(1/ϵ2), in a manner analogous to
classical probability convergence bound analyses for wide MLPs (see, e.g., Theorem 4.1 in (Arora
et al., 2019a)). In future work, we can leverage more advanced tools from stochastic NTK analysis
and explore training dynamics beyond the convergent NTK regime (Liu et al., 2020), to provide a
more comprehensive theoretical understanding on convergence and generalization of SepNNs under
small rank. Moreover, in the ﬁxed-rank regime, the factor MLPs of the SepNN converge to random
Gaussian processes. This implies that their outputs serve as random feature maps for each input.
The SepNN then performs a tensor product of these random features. This connection allows us
to consider the well-established theoretical framework of random feature models (Rahimi & Recht,
2007) to analyze the potential property of SepNNs under ﬁxed-rank settings, providing a way to
derive non-asymptotic convergence rates and generalization bounds for ﬁxed-rank SepNN.
The proposed preconditioner in this work is designed to modulate the eigenvalue distribution of
the NTK matrix K to accelerate training convergence. By applying the modulation function g(λ) to
smooth the top k eigenvalues, the resulting preconditioned product matrix K ˜S is guaranteed to have
a condition number no larger than K. This is because the dominant large eigenvalues are reduced,
leading to a more uniform spectral distribution. In future work, we can derive quantitative bounds on
the condition number of the modulated NTK matrix by leveraging its eigenvalue decay properties.
14


For instance, tools from (Li et al., 2024) on the eigenvalue decay rates of kernel functions could be
employed. We regard this as a promising direction for further research. Regarding the effect of the
preconditioner on generalization, existing studies (e.g., (Geifman et al., 2024; Tsigler & Bartlett,
2023)) suggest that slowing the eigenvalue decay of the kernel matrix can introduce an implicit
regularization effect, helping prevent overﬁtting and improving generalization. While the current
manuscript does not include a rigorous theoretical analysis of generalization, the above references
provide a way for establishing formal generalization guarantees for SepPGD.
While we consider the two-layer MLP in Theorem 2, it is straightforward to extend to multi-layer
MLPs or other network structures by utilizing the corresponding NTK formulations (Arora et al.,
2019b). Especially, for SepNNs with multi-layer factor neural networks, we can use the correspond-
ing NTK analysis for multi-layer neural networks to study their theoretical property (Arora et al.,
2019b). Especially, (Arora et al., 2019b) has shown that the NTK of a multi-layer neural network
(beyond two-layer) converges to a deterministic kernel under inﬁnite width. Their results are based
on the recursive formulation of the covariance matrix of hidden layers in a multi-layer network (cf.
Theorem 3.1 in (Arora et al., 2019b)). By borrowing this type of technique, we believe the theoret-
ical result for SepNN (Theorem 2 in our manuscript) can be readily extended to multi-layer MLPs
by replacing the two-layer factor NTK k(xd, x′
d) with multi-layer NTK formulations.
Our analysis in this paper can be readily generalized to multi-output SepNN fΘ : RD →RDout
by applying multi-output NTK approximation (Mohamadi et al., 2023). Moreover, the detailed
convergence and generalization bounds of SepNNs under ﬁxed rank conditions warrants further dis-
cussions. It is also interesting to apply SepPGD to more applications, such as implicit full waveform
inversion (Borcea et al., 2024; Chen et al., 2025) and diffeomorphic autoencoding (Dummer et al.,
2024).
A.1.3
RELATIONS TO KAN
The recently popular structure KAN (Liu et al., 2025) is closely related to the SepNN. Especially,
each layer of KAN can be viewed as a type of SepNN. Speciﬁcally, consider the input vector
x = [x(1), x(2), · · · , x(n)]T . A single KAN layer (Liu et al., 2025) (take single-output as an ex-
ample), denoted as Φ(·) : Rn →R, is deﬁned as Φ(x) = Pn
j=1 φ1,j(x(j)), where each univariate
function φ1,j(·) : R →R is parameterized as φ1,j(x(j)) = ω1,j h
b(x(j)) + PK
k=1 c1,j
k Bk(x(j))
i
.
Here, {c1,j
k } for k = 1, . . . , K are trainable parameters, and {Bk(·)} are spline basis functions as
used in (Liu et al., 2025). We observe that the output Φ(x) is a linear combination (speciﬁcally,
summation) of learnable univariate functions φ1,j(x(j)), which shares a similar spirit with SepNNs.
Therefore, each KAN layer can be viewed as a SepNN, though it does not directly correspond to the
CP, TT, or Tucker types. The distinction lies in how the linear combination is realized. In KAN, it
is implemented via simple addition of univariate functions, while in the SepNNs discussed in our
manuscript, the combination is realized via tensor product (e.g., CP, TT, or Tucker). The most sig-
niﬁcant commonality between KAN and SepNN is that both architectures learn univariate functions
and compose multivariate functions through linear combinations of these univariate components.
This characteristic fundamentally differentiates KAN from conventional MLPs, and similarly dis-
tinguishes SepNNs from their non-separable counterparts.
A.1.4
MODULATION FUNCTION CHOICE
We conducted a sensitivity analysis on the modulation function g(λ). Speciﬁcally, we compared
two forms of g(λ): g1(λi) = λk for i ≤k, and g1(λi) = λi for i > k (the version used in the
experiment); g2(λi) = √λi for i ≤k, and g2(λi) = λi for i > k. We also varied the number of
modulated eigenvalues k to assess sensitivity. The results in Table 2 below demonstrate that SepPGD
remains effective under both modulation functions, and g1(λ) yields better performance. Moreover,
the method shows robustness to the choice of k within a certain range (e.g., k ∈(60, 90)). These
ﬁndings indicate that with a suitable modulation function that smooths the eigenvalue distribution,
the proposed SepPGD method is not overly sensitive to the speciﬁc form of g(λ).
15


Table 2: PSNR performance on image representation using INRs with different modulation func-
tions.
k
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
w/o SepPGD
26.48
26.48
26.48
26.48
26.48
26.48
26.48
26.48
g1(λ)
26.79
26.95
29.65
33.04
33.30
34.28
34.21
34.06
g2(λ)
26.92
27.70
27.91
30.81
31.58
31.74
31.95
30.23
Table 3: Sensitivity analysis (PSNR) for rank R in the SepNN and k in the eigenvalue modulation
function for image representation on the original sized Plane image.
Rank R
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
k
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
SepNN
26.36 26.74 26.54 26.61 26.48 26.49 26.45
SepNN
26.48 26.48 26.48 26.48 26.48 26.48 26.48
SepNN (SepPGD) 31.59 32.69 33.41 33.65 33.30 33.54 33.40
SepNN (SepPGD) 26.79 26.95 29.65 33.04 33.30 34.28 34.21
A.1.5
HYPERPARAMETER SENSITIVITY AND MORE EXPERIMENTS
We conduct sensitivity analysis on two critical hyperparameters: the rank R in SepNN and the pa-
rameter k in the modulation function g(λ) used in the SepPGD algorithm. The image representation
results are summarized in Table 3. For varying ranks R, our SepPGD consistently enhances the
performance of SepNN. We ﬁnd that setting k > 60 in this case effectively mitigates the spectral
bias in SepNN by adjusting the NTK spectrum. In particular, values of k ∈{60, 70, 80, 90} produce
a desirable effect for enhancing convergence efﬁciency. Our SepPGD method is not overly sensitive
to the choice of k.
The sensitivity analysis of our SepPGD w.r.t. the preconditioner update frequency is shown in the
Table 4 below. SepPGD is relatively not sensitive to the preconditioner update frequency. This is
because the NTK matrix would not change abruptly during training and thus the preconditioner is
effective for NTK eigenvalue modulation across a number of iterations.
Table 4: PSNR performance on image representation using INRs with different preconditioner up-
date frequency (number of iterations between preconditioner updates).
Update frequency
10
100
300
500
700
900
1100
SepNN
26.48
26.48
26.48
26.48
26.48
26.48
26.48
SepNN (SepPGD)
33.30
33.29
33.16
33.12
33.09
33.06
33.06
The performance of SepPGD with different activation functions as well as the Fourier feature map-
ping (Tancik et al., 2020) is shown in the Table 5 below. SepPGD improves the convergence speed
of the SepNN baseline with different activation functions and Fourier encoding structures.
Table 5: PSNR performance on image representation using INRs with different activation func-
tion/network structure.
Activation
Sin
Cos
ReLU
LeakyReLU
Fourier feature +ReLU
Fourier feature+LeakyReLU
SepNN
26.48
21.83
18.20
18.20
30.89
30.94
SepNN (SepPGD)
33.30
30.06
20.02
20.74
40.49
40.51
The performance with different width is shown in the Table 6 below. With a sufﬁcient width (e.g.,
width> 200), the SepPGD is effective in accelerating the convergence of SepNN.
The experimental results for the image representation under additive Gaussian noise are shown in the
Table 7 below. Under moderate to low noise deviation, SepPGD demonstrates robustness and im-
proves the denoising performance of SepNN. However, when the noise deviation is large, SepPGD
tends to overﬁt to the noise components. This behavior is expected, as SepPGD accelerates con-
vergence toward high-frequency details, which can cause it to ﬁt high-frequency noise more rapidly
16


Table 6: PSNR performance on image representation using INRs with different network width.
Width
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
SepNN
22.46
23.88
25.21
26.19
26.48
27.08
27.20
SepNN (SepPGD)
22.79
31.46
32.75
33.22
33.30
33.89
34.35
when the noise level is high and no explicit regularizations are applied. In future work, we can
introduce suitable regularizations (e.g., total variation) to enhance robustness in noisy scenarios.
Table 7: PSNR performance on image representation using INRs with Gaussian noise.
Noise standard deviation
0.01
0.03
0.05
0.07
0.09
SepNN
26.40
26.35
26.27
25.85
25.29
SepNN (SepPGD)
33.26
31.08
28.20
26.35
25.06
Moreover, we employ SVD truncation to synthesize images with varying ranks, and then apply a
SepNN model with a ﬁxed rank of R = 100 to represent these images via INRs. The relationship
between the approximation error (MSE) and the true separation rank of the target image is given
in the Table 8 below. It can be observed that as the image rank increases, the approximation er-
ror of SepNN also grows. In contrast, SepPGD effectively enhances convergence efﬁciency (and
consequently reduces the approximation error) across different data ranks.
Table 8: Approximation error (MSE) vs. true separation rank of the target image data (Setting the
model rank R = 100) using a bivariate CP SepNN.
Data rank
100
200
300
400
500
SepNN
0.052
0.061
0.063
0.064
0.066
SepNN (SepPGD)
0.021
0.030
0.035
0.036
0.037
A.2
EXPERIMENTS ON NON-GRID INPUTS
We further conducted experiments on non-grid tasks using INRs. Speciﬁcally, we randomly sam-
pled 500 non-grid points along with their corresponding function values (f1(x, y), f2(x, y), f3(x, y)
from Eqs. (16)-(18)) to form the non-grid training dataset. We then train a SepNN to ﬁt these
non-grid samples, as shown in Table 9 below. For non-grid data, the proposed SepPGD gradient is
formulated as ∇Θd⟨fΘd((X)d,:), Md⟩, where X ∈RD×n are non-grid input points and Md is con-
structed by some Einstein products between factor outputs, preconditioner Sd, and training residual
r (especially, Md = einsum(⊙d′̸=dfΘ′
d((X)d′,:), P
d Sdr; (R, n) × (n) →(R, n)), where ⊙de-
notes element-wise product and einsum denotes the Einstein product between matrix and vector).
This formulation reduces to point-wise evaluations and yields similar efﬁciency and effectiveness to
classical NTK-based preconditioning methods, such as the MSK (Geifman et al., 2024). Therefore,
it is reasonable that SepNN (SepPGD) performs comparably to SepNN (MSK) on non-grid data,
while both outperform the original SepNN. The efﬁciency advantage of SepPGD comes primarily
from the separable structure of grid inputs, which is a prevalent training conﬁguration in applications
such as image grids in INRs and grid collocation points in PINNs.
Table 9: MSE performance of SepPGD for non-grid data f1(x, y), f2(x, y), f3(x, y) by learning
function representations using INRs.
Data
f1(x, y)
f2(x, y)
f3(x, y)
SepNN
0.020
0.030
0.075
SepNN (MSK)
0.014
0.024
0.058
SepNN (SepPGD)
0.015
0.021
0.062
17


A.3
EFFICIENT NTK MATRIX COMPUTATION
Another merit of the SepNN’s NTK is that its NTK matrix can be computed in parallel over multi-
ple inputs, resulting in greater efﬁciency compared to computing the NTK matrices of other neural
architectures (Novak et al., 2022; Mohamadi et al., 2023). In fact, the SepNN’s NTK (12) admits an
elegant form that allows the NTK matrix over grid inputs to be expressed as a Kronecker product
of smaller NTK matrices (Lemma 3), thereby improving efﬁciency. For simplicity, the NTK ma-
trix derivation is presented for the bivariate case D = 2 because the NTK matrix formulation for
multivariate cases D > 2 would be much more lengthy.
Lemma 3 (Exact NTK matrix of SepNN). Let the bivariate CP SepNN be fΘ(x1, x2)
=
1
√
R
PR
r=1 (fΘ1(x1))r (fΘ2(x2))r, where each fΘd : R →RR (d = 1, 2) is a parametric MLP with
parameters Θd, and Θ = (Θ1, Θ2). Consider the grid input points {(x1, x2)|xd ∈ˆxd, d = 1, 2}
where ˆxd ∈Rn. The NTK matrix K ∈Rn2×n2 of fΘ over these grid points is given by:
K = 1
R
R
X
r,s=1

K(r,s)
1
⊗

(fΘ2(ˆx2))⊤
r,:(fΘ2(ˆx2))s,:

+

(fΘ1(ˆx1))⊤
r,:(fΘ1(ˆx1))s,:

⊗K(r,s)
2

,
(9)
where (fΘd(ˆxd))r,: ∈R1×n denotes the r-th row of the output factor matrix fΘd(ˆxd) ∈RR×n
(fΘd takes each element in ˆxd as input in parallel) and each smaller NTK matrix K(r,s)
d
∈Rn×n
(d = 1, 2) is deﬁned by

K(r,s)
d

i,j =
D
∇Θd

fΘd((ˆxd)i)

r, ∇Θd

fΘd((ˆxd)j)

s
E
.
The proof is in Section A.10. Lemma 3 shows that computing the NTK matrix of the SepNN on grid
points only requires computing some Kronecker products between smaller matrices of size n × n,
compared to computing the direct n2 × n2 NTK matrix needed by other neural architectures for
n2 grid points. Furthermore, we can further decrease the complexity using pseudo NTK. While
computing the exact NTK matrices {K(r,s)
d
} of multi-output factor MLPs fΘd requires O(nR)
complexity due to the R outputs, researchers usually consider computing the pseudo NTK matrix
(Mohamadi et al., 2023; Novak et al., 2022) instead. In this work, we leverage the rank-one sum-of-
logits approximation to approximate the NTK matrix of the multi-output factor MLP fΘd, reducing
complexity to O(n). The pseudo NTK of the bivariate SepNN fΘ is formulated as
K ≈1
R

K1 ⊗

fΘ2(ˆx2)⊤fΘ2(ˆx2)

+

fΘ1(ˆx1)⊤fΘ1(ˆx1)

⊗K2

,
(10)
where K1, K2 ∈Rn×n are pseudo NTK matrices of the multi-output factor MLPs fΘ1, fΘ2 : R →
RR on training points ˆx1 ∈Rn and ˆx2 ∈Rn, computed using sum-of-logits (Mohamadi et al.,
2023). The relative approximation error between the pseudo NTK matrix (10) and the exact NTK
matrix (9), which is a simple weighted addition of the errors induced by K1, K2, would scale as
O(
√
W) (network width) by using analogous arguments as in (Mohamadi et al., 2023).
A.4
FIXED NTK DURING TRAINING
Theorem 3 (SepNN NTK during training). Let the multivariate CP SepNN be deﬁned as
fΘ(x1, · · · , xD) =
1
√
R
PR
r=1 (fΘ1(x1))r (fΘ2(x2))r · · · (fΘD(xD))r : RD →R, where each
fΘd : R →RR is a parametric MLP with parameters Θd, and Θ = (Θ1, · · · , ΘD) is the col-
lection of all parameters. Let each factor MLP fΘd : R →RR has the architecture fΘd(xd) =
1
√
W W2,dσ(W1,dxd + bd), with W1,d ∈RW ×1, bd ∈RW , W2,d ∈RR×W , and σ a differentiable
activation function with derivative ˙σ. Let σ, ˙σ be Lipschitz smooth. Consider n training samples
{xi, yi}n
i=1. Assume the weight (e.g., W1,d) are initialized by i.i.d. N(0, 1). Let the input norm
∥xi∥ℓ2 and label yi being uniformly bounded by some constants O(1). Consider standard gradient
descent optimizer with inﬁnitely small learning rate. Then, given a training time t > 0, as both
the width W →∞and the rank R →∞, the NTK of fΘ during training converges to the NTK at
initialization KΘ(t)(xi, xj) →KΘ(0)(xi, xj) for all xi, xj ∈{xi}n
i=1.
The proof of Theorem 3 is placed in Section A.11. The NTK matrix of SepNN during training
converges to the NTK matrix at initialization, meaning that the training dynamic of SepNN under
inﬁnite width and rank can be characterized by the corresponding linear kernel regression associated
18


with its NTK, allowing the convergence analysis in Eq. (5) to be true. It is also possible to bound
the NTK change |KΘ(t) −KΘ(0)| by Chebyshev-type inequality through leveraging the variance of
|KΘ(t) −KΘ(0)| related to O( t
R) with a ﬁxed R and small step sizes. Indeed, when W, R →∞,
the variance vanishes and KΘ(t) converges to KΘ(0) almost surely under inﬁnitely small step sizes.
With a ﬁxed R and small step sizes, we can instead use the Chebyshev inequality to quantify the
error |KΘ(t) −KΘ(0)| using probability bounds related to R and the step size.
A.5
Proof of Theorem 1
Proof. The proof consists of two main steps, including demonstrating the density of the separable
function classes (CP, TT, and Tucker), and approximating the univariate functions in the decompo-
sitions using neural networks.
We ﬁrst demonstrate the density of separable function classes using the Stone-Weierstrass theorem.
Consider the algebra A of functions on X = X1 × · · · × XN deﬁned by
A =
n
g : X →R : g(x1, · · · , xN) =
R
X
r=1
(g1(x1))r (g2(x2))r · · · (gD(xD))r , R ∈N, (gd(xd))r ∈C(Xd)
o
.
We show that this algebra is closed under addition, multiplication, and scalar multiplication.
Closed Under Multiplication. Let two functions g, h ∈A be given by
g(x) =
Rg
X
r=1
D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))r, h(x) =
Rh
X
s=1
D
Y
d=1
(hd(xd))s ∈A,
where (gd(xd))r, (hd,s(xd))r ∈C(Xd) are continuous univariate functions. Their product is
g(x)h(x) =


Rg
X
r=1
D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))r


 Rh
X
s=1
D
Y
d=1
(hd(xd))s
!
=
Rg
X
r=1
Rh
X
s=1
D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))r(hd(xd))s.
Deﬁne new rank R = RgRh. For each d and each index pair t = (r, s) (where t = 1, · · · , R),
deﬁne new continuous functions
(cd(xd))t = (gd(xd))r(hd(xd))s.
Then we have
g(x)h(x) =
R
X
t=1
D
Y
d=1
(cd(xd))t,
which is clearly in A. Thus, the CP form is closed under multiplication.
Meanwhile, let two functions g and h have TT decompositions:
g(x) =
Rg
1
X
r1=1
· · ·
Rg
D−1
X
rD−1=1
g1(x1)1,r1g2(x2)r1,r2 · · · gD(xD)rD−1,1,
h(x) =
Rh
1
X
s1=1
· · ·
Rh
D−1
X
sD−1=1
h1(x1)1,s1h2(x2)s1,s2 · · · hD(xD)sD−1,1,
where gd(xd) ∈RRg
d−1×Rg
d and hd(xd) ∈RRh
d−1×Rh
d are matrix-valued continuous functions with
Rg
0 = Rg
D = 1 and Rh
0 = Rh
D = 1. Their product is
g(x)h(x) =
X
r1,··· ,rD−1
X
s1,··· ,sD−1
(g1(x1)1,r1h1(x1)1,s1) (g2(x2)r1,r2h2(x2)s1,s2) · · ·
 gD(xD)rD−1,1hD(xD)sD−1,1

.
Deﬁne new ranks Td = Rg
dRh
d for d = 1, · · · , D−1, and deﬁne new matrix-valued functions fd(xd)
as follows. For d = 1, f1(x1) is a 1 × T1 matrix with elements
f1(x1)1,t1 = g1(x1)1,r1h1(x1)1,s1,
19


where t1 = r1s1. For d = 2, · · · , D −1, fd(xd) is a Td−1 × Td matrix with elements
fd(xd)td−1,td = gd(xd)rd−1,rdhd(xd)sd−1,sd,
where td−1 = rd−1sd−1 and td = rdsd. For d = D, fD(xD) is a TD−1 × 1 matrix with elements
fD(xD)tD−1,1 = gD(xD)rD−1,1hD(xD)sD−1,1.
Then we have
g(x)h(x) =
T1
X
t1=1
· · ·
TD−1
X
tD−1=1
f1(x1)1,t1f2(x2)t1,t2 · · · fD(xD)tD−1,1,
which is in TT form. Thus, the TT form is closed under multiplication.
Let two functions g and h have Tucker decompositions:
g(x) = Cg ×1 g1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D gD(xD) =
X
r1,··· ,rD
Cg
r1,··· ,rD
D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))rd,
h(x) = Ch ×1 h1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D hD(xD) =
X
s1,··· ,sD
Ch
s1,··· ,sD
D
Y
d=1
(hd(xd))sd,
where gd(xd) ∈RRg
d, hd(xd) ∈RRh
d are vector-valued continuous functions, and Cg
∈
RRg
1×···×Rg
D, Ch ∈RRh
1 ×···×Rh
D are core tensors. Their product is
g(x)h(x) =
X
r1,··· ,rD
X
s1,··· ,sD
Cg
r1,··· ,rDCh
s1,··· ,sD
D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))rd(hd(xd))sd.
Deﬁne new ranks Td = Rg
dRh
d for d = 1, · · · , D, and deﬁne a new core tensor Cgh ∈RT1×···×TD
with elements
Cgh
t1,··· ,tD = Cg
r1,··· ,rDCh
s1,··· ,sD,
where td = rdsd for each d. Deﬁne new vector-valued functions fd(xd) ∈RTd with elements
(fd(xd))td = (gd(xd))rd(hd(xd))sd.
Then we have
g(x)h(x) = Cgh ×1 f1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D fD(xD),
which is in Tucker form. Thus, the Tucker form is closed under multiplication.
Closed Under Addition. We verify that the function classes deﬁned by CP, TT, and Tucker decom-
positions are closed under addition. Let two functions g, h ∈A be
g(x) =
Rg
X
r=1
D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))r, h(x) =
Rh
X
s=1
D
Y
d=1
(hd(xd))s ∈A,
where (gd(xd))r, (hd(xd))s ∈C(Xd) are continuous univariate functions. Their sum is
g(x) + h(x) =
Rg
X
r=1
D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))r +
Rh
X
s=1
D
Y
d=1
(hd(xd))s.
Deﬁne new rank R = Rg +Rh and for each d, deﬁne new continuous functions fd : Xd →RR with
components
(fd(xd))r =
(
(gd(xd))r,
r = 1, · · · , Rg,
(hd(xd))r−Rg,
r = Rg + 1, · · · , R.
Then we have
g(x) + h(x) =
R
X
r=1
D
Y
d=1
(fd(xd))r,
which is clearly in A. Thus, the CP form is closed under addition.
20


Let two functions g and h have TT decompositions
g(x) =
Rg
1
X
r1=1
· · ·
Rg
D−1
X
rD−1=1
g1(x1)1,r1g2(x2)r1,r2 · · · gD(xD)rD−1,1,
h(x) =
Rh
1
X
s1=1
· · ·
Rh
D−1
X
sD−1=1
h1(x1)1,s1h2(x2)s1,s2 · · · hD(xD)sD−1,1,
where gd(xd) ∈RRg
d−1×Rg
d and hd(xd) ∈RRh
d−1×Rh
d are matrix-valued continuous functions with
Rg
0 = Rg
D = 1 and Rh
0 = Rh
D = 1. Their sum is g(x) + h(x). Deﬁne new ranks Td = Rg
d + Rh
d for
d = 1, · · · , D −1, and deﬁne new matrix-valued functions fd(xd) as follows. For d = 1, f1(x1) is
a 1 × T1 matrix with elements
f1(x1)1,t =
(
g1(x1)1,t,
t = 1, · · · , Rg
1,
h1(x1)1,t−Rg
1,
t = Rg
1 + 1, · · · , T1.
For d = 2, · · · , D −1, fd(xd) is a Td−1 × Td matrix with elements
fd(xd)t,u =





gd(xd)t,u,
t ≤Rg
d−1, u ≤Rg
d,
hd(xd)t−Rg
d−1,u−Rg
d,
t > Rg
d−1, u > Rg
d,
0,
otherwise.
For d = D, fD(xD) is a TD−1 × 1 matrix with elements
fD(xD)t,1 =
(
gD(xD)t,1,
t ≤Rg
D−1,
hD(xD)t−Rg
D−1,1,
t > Rg
D−1.
Then we have
g(x) + h(x) =
T1
X
t1=1
· · ·
TD−1
X
tD−1=1
f1(x1)1,t1f2(x2)t1,t2 · · · fD(xD)tD−1,1,
which is in TT form. Thus, the TT form is closed under addition.
Let two functions g and h have Tucker decompositions
g(x) = Cg ×1 g1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D gD(xD), h(x) = Ch ×1 h1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D hD(xD),
where Cg ∈RRg
1×···×Rg
D, Ch ∈RRh
1 ×···×Rh
D, and gd(xd) ∈RRg
d, hd(xd) ∈RRh
d are vector-valued
continuous functions. Their sum is g(x)+h(x). Deﬁne new ranks Td = Rg
d+Rh
d for d = 1, · · · , D,
and deﬁne a new core tensor C ∈RT1×···×TD with elements
Ci1,··· ,iD =





Cg
i1,··· ,iD,
if id ≤Rg
d for all d,
Ch
i1−Rg
1,··· ,iD−Rg
D,
if id > Rg
d for all d,
0,
otherwise.
Deﬁned new vector-valued functions fd(xd) ∈RTd with elements
(fd(xd))r =
(
(gd(xd))r,
r = 1, · · · , Rg
d,
(hd(xd))r−Rg
d,
r = Rg
d + 1, · · · , Td.
Then we have
g(x) + h(x) = C ×1 f1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D fD(xD),
which is in Tucker form. Thus, the Tucker form is closed under addition.
Closed Under Scalar Multiplication. For any CP, Tucker, or TT functions, it is easy to show that
multiplying them with a scalar are still CP, Tucker, or TT functions. Hence the separable function
classes are closed under scalar multiplication.
Separate Points. We further verify that the function classes deﬁned by CP, TT, and Tucker de-
compositions separate points.
That is, for any two distinct points p ̸= q in the compact set
21


X = X1 × · · · × XD, there exists a function g in the respective class such that g(p) ̸= g(q).
Consider the CP form:
g(x) =
R
X
r=1
D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))r.
Since p ̸= q, there exists some dimension d0 such that pd0 ̸= qd0. Choose R = 1 and deﬁne the
functions such that for d = d0, gd0 : Xd0 →R to be a continuous function such that gd0(pd0) ̸=
gd0(qd0) (such a function exists since continuous functions can separate points in one dimension)
and for d ̸= d0, gd(xd) = 1. Then we have
g(x) =
D
Y
d=1
gd(xd)
and
g(p) = gd0(pd0)
Y
d̸=d0
1 ̸= gd0(qd0)
Y
d̸=d0
1 = g(q).
Thus, the CP form separates points.
Consider the TT form:
g(x) =
R1
X
r1=1
· · ·
RD−1
X
rD−1=1
(g1(x1))1,r1 (g2(x2))r1,r2 · · · (gD(xD))rD−1,1 .
Choose all ranks Rd = 1 for d = 1, · · · , D −1. Then the TT form simpliﬁes to
g(x) = (g1(x1))1,1 (g2(x2))1,1 · · · (gD(xD))1,1 .
Since p ̸= q, there exists d0 such that pd0 ̸= qd0.
Choose gd0 such that (gd0(pd0))1,1 ̸=
(gd0(qd0))1,1, and for other d, choose gd to be the constant function (gd(xd))1,1 = 1. Then we
have
g(p) ̸= g(q).
(11)
Thus, the TT form separates points.
Note that CP is a special case of Tucker by setting the core tensor C as diagonal. Since the CP
function class separates points, the Tucker function class separates points as well.
Contain Identity Functions. We verify that the function classes deﬁned by CP, TT, and Tucker
decompositions contain identity functions (constant functions). Consider the CP form:
g(x) =
R
X
r=1
D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))r.
To obtain a constant function g(x) = c for some constant c ∈R, we can choose R = 1, gd(xd) = cd
where cd is a constant for each d = 1, · · · , D such that QD
d=1 cd = c. Then we have
g(x) =
D
Y
d=1
cd = c.
Thus, the CP form contains identity functions.
Consider the TT form:
g(x) =
R1
X
r1=1
· · ·
RD−1
X
rD−1=1
(g1(x1))1,r1 (g2(x2))r1,r2 · · · (gD(xD))rD−1,1 .
To obtain a constant function g(x) = c, we can choose all ranks Rd = 1 for d = 1, · · · , D −1,
and for each d = 1, · · · , D, gd(xd) to be a constant matrix with all elements equal to cd such that
QD
d=1 cd = c. Then we have
g(x) =
D
Y
d=1
cd = c.
Thus, the TT form contains identity functions.
22


Note that CP is a special case of Tucker, hence the Tucker function class contains the identity
function as well.
By the Stone-Weierstrass theorem (Fedorova, 2002), the CP function class A is dense in C(X) (as
well as the TT and Tucker function classes). Therefore, for any continuous multivariate function f
and ϵ
2 > 0, there exists a CP function PR
r=1 (g1(x1))r (g2(x2))r · · · (gD(xD))r such that
sup
x∈X
f(x) −
R
X
r=1
(g1(x1))r (g2(x2))r · · · (gD(xD))r
 < ϵ
2.
Likewise, there exist TT function PR1
r1=1
PR2
r2=1 · · · PRD−1
rD−1=1 (g1(x1))1,r1 (g2(x2))r1,r2 · · · (gD(xD))rD−1,1
and Tucker function C ×1 g1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D gD(xD) such that
sup
x∈X

f(x) −
R1
X
r1=1
R2
X
r2=1
· · ·
RD−1
X
rD−1=1
(g1(x1))1,r1 (g2(x2))r1,r2 · · · (gD(xD))rD−1,1

< ϵ
2,
sup
x∈X
f(x) −C ×1 g1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D gD(xD)
 < ϵ
2,
where each component of the factor function gd(xd) (i.e., (gd(xd))r) is a single-output continuous
function deﬁned on compact set Xd. The standard universal approximation theory (Leshno et al.,
1993) states that for any δ > 0 and any single-output continuous function (gd(xd))r deﬁned on
compact sets, there exists an MLP (f ′
Θd(xd))r sampled in {W2σ(W1x + b) : W2 ∈R1×W , W1 ∈
RW ×1, b ∈RW , W ∈N+} with σ a non-polynomial function such that
sup
x∈Xd
|(gd(xd))r −(f ′
Θd(xd))r| < δ, r = 1, · · · , R.
Let these R single-output MLPs be {(f ′
Θd(xd))r = W r
2 σ(W r
1 x + br)}R
r=1. Therefore, we can
construct a single R-output vector-valued MLP with the form
fΘd(xd) = W2σ(W1x + b) ∈RR,
where W2 = diag(W 1
2 , · · · , W R
2 ), W1 = (W 1
1
⊤, · · · , W R
1
⊤)⊤, b = (b1⊤, · · · , bR⊤)⊤such
that supx∈Xd |(gd(xd))r −(fΘd(xd))r| < δ for each component r = 1, · · · , R. We have thus
extended the classical universal approximation theorem (Leshno et al., 1993) to vector-valued func-
tions. Especially, each gd(xd) can be well approximated (in a component-wise manner) by a vector-
valued MLP fΘd : Xd →RR sampled in the set {W2σ(W1x + b) : W2 ∈R ˜
W ×W , W1 ∈
RW ×1, b ∈RW , ˜W, W ∈N+} with σ a non-polynomial activation function.
For any continuous multivariate function f : X →R, let the CP approximation be
g(x) =
R
X
r=1
(g1(x1))r(g2(x2))r · · · (gD(xD))r,
such that supx∈X |f(x) −g(x)| < ϵ
2. Let the CP SepNN approximation be:
fΘ(x) =
R
X
r=1
(fΘ1(x1))r(fΘ2(x2))r · · · (fΘD(xD))r,
with supxd∈Xd |(gd(xd))r −(fΘd(xd))r| < δ for d = 1, · · · , D and r = 1, · · · , R. The total error
is bounded by
|f(x) −fΘ(x)| ≤|f(x) −g(x)| + |g(x) −fΘ(x)|
< ϵ
2 +

R
X
r=1
 D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))r −
D
Y
d=1
(fΘd(xd))r
! .
Since each (gd(xd))r and (fΘd(xd))r is continuous on a compact set, they are bounded. Let M
be a common upper bound such that |(gd(xd))r| ≤M and |(fΘd(xd))r| ≤M for all d, r, and
x ∈X. Using the generalized Cauchy-Schwarz inequality
QD
d=1 ad −QD
d=1 bd
 ≤PD
d=1 |ad −
bd|
Qd−1
j=1 |aj|
 QD
j=d+1 |bj|

we have that for each r:

D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))r −
D
Y
d=1
(fΘd(xd))r
 ≤DM D−1 max
d
|(gd(xd))r −(fΘd(xd))r| < DM D−1δ.
23


Thus we have

R
X
r=1
 D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))r −
D
Y
d=1
(fΘd(xd))r
! < RDM D−1δ.
Choosing δ =
ϵ
2RDM D−1 we have
|f(x) −fΘ(x)| < ϵ
2 + ϵ
2 = ϵ,
and the approximation theory of CP SepNN is thus established.
For any continuous multivariate function f : X →R, let the TT approximation be
g(x) =
R1
X
r1=1
· · ·
RD−1
X
rD−1=1
(g1(x1))1,r1(g2(x2))r1,r2 · · · (gD(xD))rD−1,1,
with supx∈X |f(x) −g(x)| < ϵ
2. Let the TT SepNN approximation be
fΘ(x) =
R1
X
r1=1
· · ·
RD−1
X
rD−1=1
(fΘ1(x1))1,r1(fΘ2(x2))r1,r2 · · · (fΘD(xD))rD−1,1,
with supxd∈Xd |(gd(xd))r,s −(fΘd(xd))r,s| < δ for all d, r, s. The total error is bounded by
|f(x) −fΘ(x)| ≤|f(x) −g(x)| + |g(x) −fΘ(x)|
< ϵ
2 +

X
r1,··· ,rD−1
 D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))rd−1,rd −
D
Y
d=1
(fΘd(xd))rd−1,rd
!
,
where r0
=
1 and rD
=
1.
Let M be a common upper bound for all components
(gd(xd))rd−1,rd, (fΘd(xd))rd−1,rd on compact sets. The number of terms in the sum P
r1,··· ,rD−1 is
QD−1
d=1 Rd. Using the generalized Cauchy-Schwarz inequality
QD
d=1 ad −QD
d=1 bd
 ≤PD
d=1 |ad−
bd|
Qd−1
j=1 |aj|
 QD
j=d+1 |bj|

, for each term we have the bound

D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))rd−1,rd −
D
Y
d=1
(fΘd(xd))rd−1,rd
 < DM D−1δ.
Thus we have
|g(x) −fΘ(x)| <
 D−1
Y
d=1
Rd
!
DM D−1δ.
Choosing δ =
ϵ
2(
QD−1
d=1 Rd)DM D−1 we have
|f(x) −fΘ(x)| < ϵ
2 + ϵ
2 = ϵ,
and the universal approximation theory of TT SepNN is established.
Let the Tucker approximation be
g(x) = C ×1 g1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D gD(xD),
with supx∈X |f(x) −g(x)| < ϵ
2. Let the Tucker SepNN approximation be
fΘ(x) = C ×1 fΘ1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D fΘD(xD),
with supxd∈Xd |(gd(xd))r −(fΘd(xd))r| < δ for all d, r. The total error is bounded by:
|f(x) −fΘ(x)| ≤|f(x) −g(x)| + |g(x) −fΘ(x)|
< ϵ
2 + |C ×1 g1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D gD(xD) −C ×1 fΘ1(x1) ×2 · · · ×D fΘD(xD)| .
Using the property of mode-d product, we have
|g(x) −fΘ(x)| ≤
X
r1,··· ,rD
|Cr1,··· ,rD|

D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))rd −
D
Y
d=1
(fΘd(xd))rd
 .
24


Let M be a common upper bound for all components (gd(xd))rd, (fΘd(xd))rd on compact sets, and
assume each element of C is bounded by N. The number of terms in the summation is QD
d=1 Rd.
For each term we have

D
Y
d=1
(gd(xd))rd −
D
Y
d=1
(fΘd(xd))rd
 < DM D−1δ.
Thus we have
|g(x) −fΘ(x)| <
 D
Y
d=1
Rd
!
NDM D−1δ.
Choosing δ =
ϵ
2(
QD
d=1 Rd)NDM D−1 , we have
|f(x) −fΘ(x)| < ϵ
2 + ϵ
2 = ϵ,
and the approximation theory of Tucker SepNN is established. Note that the approximation theory
of Tucker SepNN can also be directly concluded by using the fact that CP is a special case of Tucker.
The proof is ﬁnally completed.
A.6
Proof of Lemma 1
Proof. The NTK is deﬁned as
KΘ(x, x′) =

∇ΘfΘ(x), ∇ΘfΘ(x′)

.
The gradient could decompose as
∇ΘfΘ(x) = (∇Θ1fΘ(x), ∇Θ2fΘ(x), · · · , ∇ΘDfΘ(x)) .
Thus, the inner product becomes
KΘ(x, x′) =
D
X
d=1

∇ΘdfΘ(x), ∇ΘdfΘ(x′)

.
For ﬁxed d, the gradient with respect to Θd is
∇ΘdfΘ(x) =
1
√
R
R
X
r=1

Y
d′̸=d
 fΘd′ (xd′)

r

∇Θd (fΘd(xd))r .
We ﬁrst compute the inner product of factor gradients

∇ΘdfΘ(x), ∇ΘdfΘ(x′)

= 1
R
R
X
r=1
R
X
s=1

Y
d′̸=d
 fΘd′ (xd′)

r



Y
d′̸=d
 fΘd′ (x′
d′)

s


∇Θd (fΘd(xd))r , ∇Θd
 fΘd(x′
d)

s

.
By deﬁnition, the inner product of gradients is the (r, s)-th element of the NTK matrix KΘd(xd, x′
d),
i.e.,

∇Θd (fΘd(xd))r , ∇Θd (fΘd(x′
d))s

= (KΘd(xd, x′
d))r,s. Deﬁne the vector
ad(x) =

Y
d′̸=d
 fΘd′ (xd′)

1 ,
Y
d′̸=d
 fΘd′ (xd′)

2 , · · · ,
Y
d′̸=d
 fΘd′ (xd′)

R


⊤
.
Then the summation above simpliﬁes to
1
R
R
X
r=1
R
X
s=1
(ad(x))r(ad(x′))s
 KΘd(xd, x′
d)

r,s = 1
Rad(x)⊤KΘd(xd, x′
d)ad(x′).
Therefore we have

∇ΘdfΘ(x), ∇ΘdfΘ(x′)

= 1
Rad(x)⊤KΘd(xd, x′
d)ad(x′).
Summing over all d yields the ﬁnal NTK
KΘ(x, x′) =
D
X
d=1

∇ΘdfΘ(x), ∇ΘdfΘ(x′)

= 1
R
D
X
d=1
ad(x)⊤KΘd(xd, x′
d)ad(x′).
The proof is completed.
25


A.7
Proof of Theorem 2
Proof. By Lemma 1, the NTK of the CP SepNN is given by
KΘ(x, x′) = 1
R
D
X
d=1
ad(x)⊤KΘd(xd, x′
d)ad(x′).
We then analyze the behavior of this expression as W →∞and R →∞.
We ﬁrst analyze the behavior of each factor function fΘd(x) =
1
√
W W2,dσ(W1,dx + bd). The j-th
output component (j = 1, · · · , R) of the network is
(fΘd(x))j =
1
√
W
W
X
i=1
(W2,d)j,i σ((W1,d)ix + (bd)i).
Let zi = (W1,d)ix + (bd)i. The gradients of (fΘd(x))j w.r.t. the parameters are
∂(fΘd(x))j
∂(W2,d)j,i =
1
√
W
σ(zi), and ∂(fΘd(x))j
∂(W2,d)j′,i
= 0, j′ ̸= j.
∂(fΘd(x))j
∂(W1,d)i
=
1
√
W
(W2,d)j,i ˙σ(zi) x.
∂(fΘd(x))j
∂(bd)i
=
1
√
W
(W2,d)j,i ˙σ(zi).
The (j, j′)-th element of the NTK matrix is
(KΘd(x, x′))j,j′ =
X
i
∂(fΘd(x))j
∂(W2,d)j,i
∂(fΘd(x′))j′
∂(W2,d)j′,i
+
X
i
∂(fΘd(x))j
∂(W1,d)i
∂(fΘd(x′))j′
∂(W1,d)i
+
X
i
∂(fΘd(x))j
∂(bd)i
∂(fΘd(x′))j′
∂(bd)i
.
For j ̸= j′, all terms involve products of independent zero-mean variables (i.e., (W2,d)j,i and
(W2,d)j′,i), hence E[(KΘd(x, x′))j,j′] = 0. Thus, the NTK matrix is diagonal. We now compute
the diagonal elements (KΘd(x, x′))j,j. For a ﬁxed j, we have
(KΘd(x, x′))j,j =
X
i
∂(fΘd(x))j
∂(W2,d)j,i
∂(fΘd(x′))j
∂(W2,d)j,i +
X
i
∂(fΘd(x))j
∂(W1,d)i
∂(fΘd(x′))j
∂(W1,d)i
+
X
i
∂(fΘd(x))j
∂(bd)i
∂(fΘd(x′))j
∂(bd)i
=
X
i
 1
W σ(zi)σ(z′
i)

+
X
i
 1
W (W2,d)2
j,i ˙σ(zi) ˙σ(z′
i)xx′

+
X
i
 1
W (W2,d)2
j,i ˙σ(zi) ˙σ(z′
i)

,
where zi = (W1,d)ix + (bd)i and z′
i = (W1,d)ix′ + (bd)i. Combining these terms we have
(KΘd(x, x′))j,j = 1
W
X
i
σ(zi)σ(z′
i) + 1
W
X
i
(W2,d)2
j,i ˙σ(zi) ˙σ(z′
i)(xx′ + 1).
Taking the expectation over parameters we have
E[(KΘd(x, x′))j,j] = E
 
1
W
X
i
σ(zi)σ(z′
i)
!
+ E
 
1
W
X
i
(W2,d)2
j,i ˙σ(zi) ˙σ(z′
i)(xx′ + 1)
!
.
Since (W2,d)j,i is independent of (W1,d)i and (bd)i, and E[(W2,d)2
j,i] = 1, we have
E[(W2,d)2
j,i ˙σ(zi) ˙σ(z′
i)] = E[(W2,d)2
j,i]E[ ˙σ(zi) ˙σ(z′
i)] = E[ ˙σ(zi) ˙σ(z′
i)].
Thus we have
E[(KΘd(x, x′))j,j] = E
 
1
W
X
i
σ(zi)σ(z′
i)
!
+ E
 
1
W
X
i
˙σ(zi) ˙σ(z′
i)
!
(xx′ + 1).
As W →∞, by the law of large numbers, we get
1
W
X
i
σ(zi)σ(z′
i) →Ew,b∼N (0,1)[σ(wx + b)σ(wx′ + b)],
1
W
X
i
˙σ(zi) ˙σ(z′
i) →Ew,b∼N (0,1)[ ˙σ(wx + b) ˙σ(wx′ + b)].
26


Therefore we have
lim
W →∞(KΘd(x, x′))j,j = Ew,b
 σ(wx + b)σ(wx′ + b)

+ Ew,b
 ˙σ(wx + b) ˙σ(wx′ + b)

(xx′ + 1)
= k(x, x′)
by deﬁnition of k(x, x′). Since this limit is identical for all j, the NTK matrix KΘd(x, x′) converges
to k(x, x′)IR. Substituting the diagonal form of KΘd into the NTK expression
KΘ(x, x′) = 1
R
D
X
d=1
k(xd, x′
d)
R
X
r=1
(ad(x))r(ad(x′))r,
where (ad(x))r = Q
d′̸=d(fΘd′(xd′))r. Consider the inner summation for each d:
Vd := 1
R
R
X
r=1
(ad(x))r(ad(x′))r = 1
R
R
X
r=1
Y
d′̸=d
(fΘd′ (xd′))r(fΘd′ (x′
d′))r.
The factor MLPs are i.i.d. across the output components r (see (Lee et al., 2018)), and the terms
(fΘd′(xd′))r and (fΘd′(x′
d′))r are also independent across d′. By the law of large numbers, as
R →∞, we have
Vd →E

Y
d′̸=d
(fΘd′ (xd′))r(fΘd′ (x′
d′))r

=
Y
d′̸=d
E
 (fΘd′ (xd′))r(fΘd′ (x′
d′))r

.
As W →∞, by the neural network Gaussian process theory (Lee et al., 2018), we have that fΘd′
converges to a Gaussian process with covariance
E
 (fΘd′ (xd′))r(fΘd′ (x′
d′))r

= Ew,b∼N (0,1)[σ(wxd′ + b)σ(wx′
d′ + b)] = cd′(xd′, x′
d′),
where cd′(xd′, x′
d′) = Ew,b∼N(0,1) (σ(wxd′ + b)σ(wx′
d′ + b)) is by deﬁnition. Therefore, we have
Vd →
Y
d′̸=d
cd′(xd′, x′
d′),
and the overall NTK converges to
KΘ(x, x′) →
D
X
d=1
k(xd, x′
d)
Y
d′̸=d
cd′(xd′, x′
d′),
as stated in the theorem. Since the convergence of each factor MLP’s NTK matrix is almost sure
as W →∞, and the law of large numbers gives almost sure convergence as R →∞, the overall
convergence is in almost sure regime.
A.8
Proof of Corollary 1
Proof. We prove Corollary 1 by leveraging the results from Theorem 2 and Lemma 1. Recall that
the CP SepNN is deﬁned as
fΘ(x1, · · · , xD) =
1
√
R
R
X
r=1
(fΘ1(x1))r (fΘ2(x2))r · · · (fΘD(xD))r ,
where each factor MLP fΘd : R →RR has the architecture
fΘd(xd) =
1
√
W
W2,dσ(W1,dxd + bd)
with parameters initialized independently from N(0, 1). From Lemma 1, the NTK of the SepNN is
KΘ(x, x′) = 1
R
D
X
d=1
ad(x)⊤KΘd(xd, x′
d)ad(x′),
where (ad(x))r = Q
d′̸=d(fΘd′(xd′))r and KΘd(xd, x′
d) is the NTK matrix of the d-th factor MLP.
Consider the limit as the width W →∞while the rank R is ﬁxed. From the proof of Theorem 2,
27


for each factor MLP fΘd, as W →∞, the NTK matrix KΘd(xd, x′
d) converges almost surely to a
deterministic diagonal matrix
KΘd(xd, x′
d) →k(xd, x′
d)IR,
where
k(xd, x′
d)
=
cd(xd, x′
d) + Ew,b∼N(0,1) ( ˙σ(wxd + b) ˙σ(wx′
d + b)(xdx′
d + 1))
and
cd(xd, x′
d) = Ew,b∼N(0,1) (σ(wxd + b)σ(wx′
d + b)). Substituting this into the NTK expression
KΘ(x, x′) →1
R
D
X
d=1
k(xd, x′
d)
R
X
r=1
(ad(x))r(ad(x′))r.
Deﬁne
Vd(x, x′) := 1
R
R
X
r=1
(ad(x))r(ad(x′))r = 1
R
R
X
r=1
Y
d′̸=d
(fΘd′ (xd′))r(fΘd′ (x′
d′))r.
Then we have
KΘ(x, x′) →
D
X
d=1
k(xd, x′
d)Vd(x, x′).
It remains to characterize the behavior of Vd(x, x′). The factor MLPs are initialized independently
across dimensions d′, and for each ﬁxed d′, the output components (fΘd′(xd′))r for r = 1, · · · , R
are independent and i.i.d. due to the independent initialization of W2,d′ (Lee et al., 2018). As
W →∞, each output (fΘd′(xd′))r converges to a Gaussian process with covariance function
E
 (fΘd′ (xd′))r(fΘd′ (x′
d′))r

= cd′(xd′, x′
d′)
by the neural network Gaussian process theory (Lee et al., 2018). Consequently, as W →∞,
KΘ(x, x′) converges in distribution to the stochastic kernel
D
X
d=1
k(xd, x′
d)Vd(x, x′),
where Vd(x, x′) =
1
R
PR
r=1
Q
d′̸=d(fΘd′ (xd′))r(fΘd′(x′
d′))r and each (fΘd′(xd′))r is a Gaussian
process with covariance cd′(xd′, x′
d′).
A.9
Proof of Lemma 2
Proof. From the construction of Md in (8) we can see that
M1 = fΘ2(ˆx2)

R⊤S1 + S2R⊤
, M2 = fΘ1(ˆx1) (S1R + RS2) ,
where we have used the symmetry of Sd. Let A = fΘ1(ˆx1) ∈RR×n, B = fΘ2(ˆx2) ∈RR×n.
Then the output matrix of the SepNN is ZΘ = A⊤B. The vectorized output (let X ∈R2×n2 be
row-ﬁrst batched inputs) is
vec(Z⊤
Θ ) = vec(B⊤A) = (In ⊗B⊤)vec(A).
For parameters Θ1, the gradient given by classical NTK-based PGD is
∇Θ1fΘ(X)⊤˜Sr =
∂vec(Z⊤
Θ )
∂Θ1
⊤
˜Sr.
Since ∂vec(Z⊤
Θ )
∂Θ1
= (In ⊗B⊤) ∂vec(A)
∂Θ1
, we have
∂vec(Z⊤
Θ )
∂Θ1
⊤
=
∂vec(A)
∂Θ1
⊤
(In ⊗B).
Thus we have
∇Θ1fΘ(X)⊤˜Sr =
∂vec(A)
∂Θ1
⊤
(In ⊗B) ˜Sr.
The gradient in SepPGD is
∇Θ1⟨A, M1⟩=
∂vec(A)
∂Θ1
⊤
vec(M1) =
∂vec(A)
∂Θ1
⊤
vec(B(R⊤S1 + S2R⊤)).
28


By the Kronecker product property (C⊤⊗A)vec(B) = vec(ABC), we can obtain
(In ⊗B) ˜Sr = (In ⊗B)(S1 ⊗In + In ⊗S2)vec(R⊤)
= (In ⊗B)vec(R⊤S1 + S2R⊤)
= vec(BR⊤S1 + BS2R⊤)
= vec(B(R⊤S1 + S2R⊤)).
Therefore we have
∇Θ1fΘ(X)⊤˜Sr = ∇Θ1⟨A, M1⟩.
Similarly we can show that ∇Θ2fΘ(X)⊤˜Sr = ∇Θ2⟨B, M2⟩. These results imply that
[∇Θ1⟨fΘ1(ˆx1), M1⟩, ∇Θ2⟨fΘ2(ˆx2), M2⟩] = ∇ΘfΘ(X)⊤˜Sr,
and hence the SepPGD is equivalent to the classical NTK-based PGD.
A.10
Proof of Lemma 3
Proof. The NTK of the SepNN for two points x = (x1, x2) and x′ = (x′
1, x′
2) is
KΘ(x, x′) =

∇Θ1fΘ(x), ∇Θ1fΘ(x′)

+

∇Θ2fΘ(x), ∇Θ2fΘ(x′)

.
The gradients are
∇Θ1fΘ(x) =
1
√
R
R
X
r=1
(fΘ2(x2))r ∇Θ1 (fΘ1(x1))r ,
∇Θ2fΘ(x) =
1
√
R
R
X
r=1
(fΘ1(x1))r ∇Θ2 (fΘ2(x2))r .
Thus we have

∇Θ1fΘ(x), ∇Θ1fΘ(x′)

= 1
R
R
X
r,s=1
(fΘ2(x2))r
 fΘ2(x′
2)

s

∇Θ1 (fΘ1(x1))r , ∇Θ1
 fΘ1(x′
1)

s

,

∇Θ2fΘ(x), ∇Θ2fΘ(x′)

= 1
R
R
X
r,s=1
(fΘ1(x1))r
 fΘ1(x′
1)

s

∇Θ2 (fΘ2(x2))r , ∇Θ2
 fΘ2(x′
2)

s

.
Therefore,
KΘ(x, x′) = 1
R
R
X
r,s=1

(fΘ2(x2))r
 fΘ2(x′
2)

s

∇Θ1 (fΘ1(x1))r , ∇Θ1
 fΘ1(x′
1)

s

+ (fΘ1(x1))r
 fΘ1(x′
1)

s

∇Θ2 (fΘ2(x2))r , ∇Θ2
 fΘ2(x′
2)

s
 
.
Let ˆxd = ((ˆxd)1, · · · , (ˆxd)n)⊤for d = 1, 2. Deﬁne Fd ∈RR×n with (Fd)r,i = (fΘd((ˆxd)i))r, so
(fΘd(ˆxd))r,: ∈R1×n is the r-th row of Fd. For r, s = 1, · · · , R, deﬁne K(r,s)
d
∈Rn×n by

K(r,s)
d

i,j =
D
∇Θd
 fΘd((ˆxd)i)

r , ∇Θd

fΘd((ˆxd)j)

s
E
.
The NTK matrix K ∈Rn2×n2 has entries
K(i,j),(i′,j′) = KΘ

((ˆx1)i, (ˆx2)j), ((ˆx1)i′, (ˆx2)j′)

.
Substituting into the above expression:
K(i,j),(i′,j′) = 1
R
R
X
r,s=1
 
fΘ2((ˆx2)j)

r

fΘ2((ˆx2)j′)

s

∇Θ1
 fΘ1((ˆx1)i)

r , ∇Θ1
 fΘ1((ˆx1)i′)

s

+
 fΘ1((ˆx1)i)

r
 fΘ1((ˆx1)i′)

s
D
∇Θ2

fΘ2((ˆx2)j)

r , ∇Θ2

fΘ2((ˆx2)j′)

s
E 
.
According to the deﬁnitions of Fd and K(r,s)
d
we have
K(i,j),(i′,j′) = 1
R
R
X
r,s=1

(F2)r,j(F2)s,j′

K(r,s)
1

i,i′ + (F1)r,i(F1)s,i′

K(r,s)
2

j,j′

.
29


Note that
(F2)r,j(F2)s,j′ =

(fΘ2(ˆx2))⊤
r,:(fΘ2(ˆx2))s,:

j,j′
and
(F1)r,i(F1)s,i′ =

(fΘ1(ˆx1))⊤
r,:(fΘ1(ˆx1))s,:

i,i′ .
Therefore, the ﬁrst term in K(i,j),(i′,j′) corresponds to
K(r,s)
1
⊗

(fΘ2(ˆx2))⊤
r,:(fΘ2(ˆx2))s,:

,
and the second term in K(i,j),(i′,j′) corresponds to

(fΘ1(ˆx1))⊤
r,:(fΘ1(ˆx1))s,:

⊗K(r,s)
2
.
Summing over r, s and scaling by 1/R gives
K = 1
R
R
X
r,s=1

K(r,s)
1
⊗

(fΘ2(ˆx2))⊤
r,:(fΘ2(ˆx2))s,:

+

(fΘ1(ˆx1))⊤
r,:(fΘ1(ˆx1))s,:

⊗K(r,s)
2

,
as required.
A.11
Proof of Theorem 3
Proof. According to Lemma 1, the NTK of fΘ, deﬁned as KΘ(x, x′) := ⟨∇ΘfΘ(x), ∇ΘfΘ(x′)⟩
for x = (x1, · · · , xD) and x′ = (x′
1, · · · , x′
D), is given by
KΘ(x, x′) = 1
R
D
X
d=1
ad(x)⊤KΘd(xd, x′
d)ad(x′),
(12)
where KΘd(xd, x′
d) ∈RR×R is the NTK matrix of the d-th factor MLP fΘd with elements
(KΘd(xd, x′
d))r,s
=

∇Θd (fΘd(xd))r , ∇Θd (fΘd(x′
d))s

, and ad(x) is a vector deﬁned by
ad(x) =
 Q
d′̸=d
 fΘd′(xd′)

1 , Q
d′̸=d
 fΘd′(xd′)

2 , · · · , Q
d′̸=d
 fΘd′(xd′)

R
⊤
∈RR. In the
inﬁnitely small under standard gradient descent optimizer with inﬁnitely smaller learning rate, the
dynamics of network predictions u(t) = (fΘ(t)(x1), · · · , fΘ(t)(xn))⊤∈Rn under standard gradi-
ent descent optimizer would follow du(t)
dt
= −K(t)(u(t) −y), where K(t) ∈Rn×n is the NTK
matrix over {xi}. The dynamics of each network weight w(t) under standard gradient descent op-
timizer with inﬁnitely smaller learning rate would follow dw(t)
dt
= −P
i(fΘ(t)(xi) −yi)
dfΘ(t)(xi)
dw(t)
.
For a ﬁxed d, denote at
i = ad(xi) ∈RR, where ad(xi) are deﬁned using the network weights
at time t, i.e., Θ(t) (since the asymptotic behavior of each ad(xi) is the same, we can discard
the subscript d for simplicity). Denote Kt
i,j = KΘd(t)((xi)d, (xj)d) ∈RR×R. We bound the
difference KΘ(t)(xi, xj) −KΘ(0)(xi, xj) using
|KΘ(t)(xi, xj) −KΘ(0)(xi, xj)| =

1
R
X
d
 at
iKt
i,jat
j −a0
i Kt
i,jat
j + a0
i Kt
i,jat
j −a0
i K0
i,ja0
j


≤1
R
X
d
(at
i −a0
i )Kt
i,jat
j
 +
a0
i (Kt
i,jat
j −K0
i,ja0
j)

≤1
R
X
d
(at
i −a0
i )Kt
i,jat
j
 +
a0
i Kt
i,j(at
j −a0
j)
 +
a0
i (Kt
i,j −K0
i,j)a0
j
 .
(13)
We next show that the variance of the movements |at
i −a0
i |, |at
j −a0
j|, |Kt
i,j −K0
i,j| and
at
j, a0
i , a0
j, Kt
i,j are bounded by some constants related to R, W.
30


Let the loss function be L = 1
2(fΘ(xi) −yi)2. Then the dynamic of each weight matrix W2,d is
d(W2,d)r,s
dt
= −
∂L
∂(W2,d)r,s
= −
X
i
(fΘ(xi) −yi) ∂fΘ(xi)
∂(W2,d)r,s
= −
X
i
( fΘ(xi)
| {z }
Var. O(1)
−yi) 1
√
R







Y
d′̸=d
(fΘd′ (xi)d′)r
|
{z
}
Var. O(1)







1
√
W
σ(zs)
| {z }
Var. O(1)
= O(
1
√
RW
)X,
where zs = (W1,d)sx + (bd)s and X is a r.v. with variance O(1), and Q
d′̸=d(fΘd′(xi)d′)r has
variance O(1) by the i.i.d. N(0, 1) weight assumption and the scaling factor
1
√
W following the
neural network Gaussian process theory (Lee et al., 2018). Also, we have used the fact that D is a
ﬁxed constant dimension. Therefore d(W2,d)r,s
dt
has variance O(
1
RW ). Similarly, we have
d(W1,d)s
dt
= −
X
i
(fΘ(xi) −yi)
1
√
W
1
√
R
(xi)d
X
r

Y
d′̸=d
(fΘd′ (xi)d′)r


|
{z
}
Var. O(R)
(W2,d)r,s ˙σ(zs)
= O(
1
√
W
) 1
√
R
Y,
where Y has variance O(R), and thus
1
√
RY has variance O(1). Therefore d(W1,d)s
dt
has variance
O( 1
W ). Similarly, d(bd)s
dt
can be written as O(
1
√
W ) 1
√
RY for some r.v. Y of variance O(R). For
each weight w(t), its movement is |w(t) −w(0)| ≤
R t
0 | w(τ)
dτ |dτ. Therefore, the network prediction
change ∥fΘd(t)((xi)d) −fΘd(0)((xi)d)∥ℓ2 is bounded by
∥fΘd(t)((xi)d)−fΘd(0)((xi)d)∥ℓ2 =
1
√
W
∥W2,d(t)σ(W1,d(t)(xi)d + bd(t)) −W2,d(0)σ(W1,d(0)(xi)d + bd(0))∥ℓ2
≤
1
√
W
∥(W2,d(t) −W2,d(0))
|
{z
}
Var. O(t)
σ(W1,d(t)(xi)d + bd(t))
|
{z
}
Var. O(W )
∥ℓ2
+
1
√
W
∥W2,d(0)
|
{z
}
Var. O(RW )
(σ(W1,d(t)(xi)d + bd(t)) −σ(W1,d(0)(xi)d + bd(0)))
|
{z
}
Var. O(t)
∥ℓ2,
where we have used the Lipschitz smoothness of σ and the small movement of each (W1,d)s and
(W2,d)r,s to compose the total movement by summing over the variance. This implies that the total
movement ∥fΘd(t)((xi)d) −fΘd(0)((xi)d)∥ℓ2 has variance not larger than O(Rt), and thus each
rank component’s movement |(fΘd(t)((xi)d))r −(fΘd(0)((xi)d))r| has variance not larger than
O(t). According to the proof of Theorem 2, we have each factor MLP’s NTK formulation:
(KΘd(x, x′))j,j = 1
W
X
i
σ(zi)σ(z′
i) + 1
W
X
i
(W2,d)2
j,i ˙σ(zi) ˙σ(z′
i)(xx′ + 1),
(14)
31


where zi = (W1,d)ix + (bd)i and z′
i = (W1,d)ix′ + (bd)i. According to (14), for two points x, x′,
the change of factor NTK matrix is
|(KΘd(t)(x, x′))j,j−(KΘd(0)(x, x′))j,j| ≤1
W
X
i
|σ(zi(t))σ(z′
i(t)) −σ(zi(0))σ(z′
i(0))|
+ 1
W
X
i
|(W2,d(t))2
j,i ˙σ(zi(t)) ˙σ(z′
i(t)) −(W2,d(0))2
j,i ˙σ(zi(0)) ˙σ(z′
i(0))||xx′ + 1|
= 1
W
X
i
| σ(zi(t))σ(z′
i(t)) −σ(zi(t))σ(z′
i(0))
|
{z
}
Var. O( t
W )
+ σ(zi(t))σ(z′
i(0)) −σ(zi(0))σ(z′
i(0))
|
{z
}
Var. O( t
W )
|
+ 1
W
X
i
| (W2,d(t))2
j,i ˙σ(zi(t)) ˙σ(z′
i(t)) −(W2,d(t))2
j,i ˙σ(zi(0)) ˙σ(z′
i(0))
|
{z
}
Var. O( t
W )
+ (W2,d(t))2
j,i ˙σ(zi(0)) ˙σ(z′
i(0)) −(W2,d(0))2
j,i ˙σ(zi(0)) ˙σ(z′
i(0))
|
{z
}
Var. O(
t
RW )
||xx′ + 1|.
Therefore, the change |(KΘd(t)(x, x′))j,j −(KΘd(0)(x, x′))j,j| would have variance not larger than
O( t
W ) by summing over i and the scaling factor
1
W . In the inﬁnite width limit, the factor NTK
matrix KΘd(x, x′) ∈RR×R is diagonal. Hence the factor NTK matrix KΘd(x, x′) ∈RR×R
change norm ∥KΘd(t)(x, x′) −KΘd(0)(x, x′)∥op has variance not larger than O( t
W ) in terms of
operator norm (the largest diagonal element). Similarly, the NTK matrix norm ∥KΘd(t)(x, x′)∥op
has variance not larger than O(1) from the operator norm of a matrix. The vector ad(x) is deﬁned
as ad(x) =
Q
d′̸=d(fΘd′(xd′))1, · · · , Q
d′̸=d(fΘd′(xd′))R
⊤
. Each element has variance O(1),
so the norm ∥ad(x)∥ℓ2 has variance not larger than O(R). Its change norm ∥at
d(x) −a0
d(x)∥ℓ2 has
variance not larger than O(t) by the argument before and the neural network Gaussian process (Lee
et al., 2018). By substituting all the variance bounds into (13), we see that 1
R
(at
i −a0
i )Kt
i,jat
j
 has
variance not larger than
1
R2 O(t)O(1)O(R) = O( t
R). 1
R
a0
i Kt
i,j(at
j −a0
j)
 has variance not larger
than
1
R2 O(R)O(1)O(t) = O( t
R).
1
R
a0
i (Kt
i,j −K0
i,j)a0
j
 has variance
1
R2 O(R)O( t
W )O(R) =
O( t
W ). Hence the total error has variance not larger than O( t
R) + O( t
W ). When W, R →∞,
such variance vanishes and the total error |KΘ(t)(xi, xj) −KΘ(0)(xi, xj)| →0 almost surely. This
implies that KΘ(t)(xi, xj) →KΘ(0)(xi, xj) for all xi, xj in training data.
A.12
DETAILED EXPERIMENTAL SETTINGS AND MORE RESULTS
KRR. Using the KRR of NTK could mimic the behavior of inﬁnite-width neural networks because
the training dynamic of neural networks with inﬁnite width can be characterized by their correspond-
ing NTK. Following (Geifman et al., 2024), we perform KRR by using the gradients of the neural
network w.r.t. parameters as the feature function of the kernel. We test both MLP and CP SepNN,
and compare the CP SepPGD with the classical NTK-based PGD, the modiﬁed spectrum kernel
(MSK) (Geifman et al., 2024). Following (Geifman et al., 2024), we consider both noisy (standard
deviation 0.01) and noiseless cases. The convergence behavior is measured by testing MSE during
training. Because the efﬁciency advantage of SepNN and SepPGD comes from the lower complexity
in an iteration, we plot the convergence curve w.r.t. execution time rather than iteration number. All
experiments are conducted on an RTX 2080TI GPU. All experiments are conducted in the full-batch
optimization setting to align with theories.
Speciﬁcally, given an initialization of network parameters Θ0 ∈RP (with P denoting the number
of parameters), let φ(x) := ∇Θ0fΘ0(x) and h(x, Θ′) := ⟨Θ′, φ(x)⟩. Let X denote the batched
inputs and y the batched labels. The KRR w.r.t. the preconditioned loss is
min
Θ′∈Rp
1
2
S1/2(h(X, Θ′) −y)

2
2 + 1
2γ ∥Θ′∥2
ℓ2 ,
(15)
where S is the preconditioner in the NTK-based PGD. We use gradient descent to optimize the
parameters Θ′ to perform the KRR by using the NTK at initialization. We utilize the Adam optimizer
(Kingma & Ba, 2015) with learning rate 0.001 and weight decay 0.0001, where the weight decay
serves as the regularization term (ℓ2-norm of weight vector Θ′) in KRR. The rank of the bivariate
32


(a) f1(x,y)                                                                                     (b) f2(x,y)
(a) f1(x,y)                                                                                     (b) f2(x,y)
Figure 5: Convergence curves for KRR on data f1(x, y) and f2(x, y).
CP SepNN is set as 100. The network width is set as 200. The depth of MLPs is set to 3. The
preconditioner of each method is updated once every 10 iterations. In the modulation function g(λ),
we set k = 5 for SepPGD and k = 25 for MSK (ﬁned-tuned using trial-and-error). The activation
function in MLPs and factor MLPs in SepNNs is set as ReLU for KRR. We use the following
analytical functions from (Lee et al., 1997) to perform the KRR testing.
f1(x, y) =1
3 exp
 −81
4 ((x −1/2)2 + (y −1/2)2)

,
(16)
f2(x, y) =1.25 + cos(5.4y)
6 + 6(3x −1)2 ,
(17)
f3(x, y) =1
9(tanh(9 −9x −9y) + 1).
(18)
We randomly select 30 × 30 = 900 training points and 30 × 30 = 900 testing points on grids in
the interval [−1, 1] × [−1, 1]. We add Gaussian noise with standard deviation 0.01 on the training
set in the noise case. Results are averaged across ﬁve random seeds. The result in Fig. 2 lists
the convergence curves for f3(x, y). The results (convergence curves during training, i.e., MSE on
testing sets during training) for f1 and f2 are shown in Fig. 5.
(a) Peppers                                                                                     (b) Plane
(a) Peppers                                                                                     (b) Plane
Figure 6: Convergence curves for image representation on downsampled data Peppers and Plane.
Figure 7: Convergence curves for image representation using PSNR vs. iteration.
Image Representation and Recovery. For image representation, we consider using the SepNN to
approximate the image by feeding the coordinates of images into the SepNNs and output the image
values, a convention in INRs (Sitzmann et al., 2020; Shi et al., 2025). We use the image datasets
Baboon, Peppers, and Plane4 (512 × 512 × 3) as shown in Figs. 10-12.
The experiments contain two parts. In the ﬁrst part, we run MLP, MLP (MSK), CP SepNN, CP
SepNN (MSK), and CP SepNN (SepPGD) for image representation (Fig. 2(b) and Fig. 6) on down-
sampled images with smaller resolution to ﬁt the computational overhead, since the NTK calculation
in MSK is expensive for images of large sizes. In the second part, we run MLP, SepNN, and SepNN
(SepPGD) for image representation and recovery (inpainting) (Fig. 3 and Figs. 8-12) on the original
image sizes. For the original size, the MSK run out of memory on our GPU and hence we omit
4https://sipi.usc.edu/database/database.php
33


Original
MLP
SepNN
SepNN (SepPGD)
PSNR Inf
PSNR 21.58
PSNR 21.24
PSNR 28.13
Figure 8: Visual results for image representation via INR and SepPGD on Baboon
.
Original
MLP
SepNN
SepNN (SepPGD)
PSNR Inf
PSNR 27.69
PSNR 27.34
PSNR 33.17
Figure 9: Visual results for image representation via INR and SepPGD on Peppers.
Observed
Original
MLP
SepNN
SepNN (SepPGD)
PSNR Inf
PSNR 26.75
PSNR 28.37
PSNR 28.93
Figure 10: Visual results for image inpainting via INR and SepPGD on Plane.
Observed
Original
MLP
SepNN
SepNN (SepPGD)
PSNR Inf
PSNR 21.15
PSNR 20.94
PSNR 21.21
Figure 11: Visual results for image inpainting via INR and SepPGD on Baboon.
Observed
Original
MLP
SepNN
SepNN (SepPGD)
PSNR Inf
PSNR 27.66
PSNR 29.01
PSNR 29.58
Figure 12: Visual results for image inpainting via INR and SepPGD on Peppers.
the comparison with MSK on original sized images. The network width is set to 150 for smaller
images, a smaller value since the NTK calculation for MLP and MSK runs out of memory for larger
width. We train the neural networks using INRs by feeding the image coordinates into the network
and output the corresponding image value for image representation, following INR works (Sitzmann
et al., 2020; Shi et al., 2025). For image recovery (i.e., image inpainting), we randomly sample 30%
points in the image as incompleted entries. We then train the models on other 70% known pixels
and predict the values of incompleted entries using the trained model for image inpainting. For the
ﬁrst part using smaller images, we report the image representation MSE w.r.t. execution time using
convergence curves (Fig. 2(b) and Fig. 6) to show the convergence superiority of SepPGD. For the
34


(a) Convergence curves                         (b) Ground-truth                                        (c) PINN                               (d) Separable PINN             (e) Separable PINN (SepPGD)
             MSE 0                                              MSE 0.056                                     MSE 0.029                                  MSE 0.018                     
y
(a) Convergence curves                         (b) Ground-truth                                        (c) PINN                               (d) Separable PINN             (e) Separable PINN (SepPGD)
             MSE 0                                              MSE 0.056                                     MSE 0.029                                  MSE 0.018                     
y
Figure 13: Convergence curves and results for the 3D Klein-Gordon equation using PINNs.
y
(a) Convergence curves                         (b) Ground-truth                                                  (c) PINN                               (d) Separable PINN                  (e) Separable PINN (SepPGD)
             MSE 0                                                        MSE 0.029                                     MSE 0.018                                        MSE 0.016                   
y
(a) Convergence curves                         (b) Ground-truth                                                  (c) PINN                               (d) Separable PINN                  (e) Separable PINN (SepPGD)
             MSE 0                                                        MSE 0.029                                     MSE 0.018                                        MSE 0.016                   
Figure 14: Convergence curves and results for the 3D Helmholtz equation using PINNs.
second part using larger images, we present visual results to display the recovery of image details
and textures (Fig. 3 and Figs. 8-12).
In the ﬁrst part using smaller images, we consider both noisy (standard deviation 0.01) and noiseless
cases. The convergence behavior is measured by image MSE during training. Because the efﬁciency
advantage of SepNN and SepPGD comes from the lower complexity in an iteration, we plot the
convergence curve w.r.t. execution time rather than iteration number (While we have also reported
the convergence curves w.r.t. iteration for larger images; see Fig. 7). All experiments are conducted
on an RTX 2080TI GPU. For all experiments of image representation, we utilize the Adam optimizer
(Kingma & Ba, 2015) with learning rate 0.0001 and without weight decay. For smaller images, the
rank of the bivariate CP SepNN is set as 150. The network width is set as 150. For original sized
images, the rank and network width are set to 500. The depth of MLPs is set to 3. The preconditioner
of each method is updated once every 10 iterations. The images are ﬁtted channel-by-channel using
bivariate SepNNs. In the modulation function g(λ), we set k = 10 for smaller images and k = 70
for original sized images. For MSK, we set k = 25 in the modulation function (ﬁne-tuned using
trial-and-error). All MLPs and factor MLPs in SepNNs are parameterized by the SIREN structure
(Sitzmann et al., 2020), a well-studied method in INRs. For original sized images, we run 1300
iterations for all methods to ensure fair comparisons between their convergence behavior.
Convergence curves in Fig. 2(b) list the result for Baboon. The convergence curves for Peppers
and Plane are shown in Fig. 6. We note that in these ﬁgures, MLP (MSK) does not obviously
improve the convergence of MLP. This is because the MSK under full-batch condition requires gen-
erally larger computational costs for image data, resulting similar convergence speed as compared
with the pure MLP. Image representation results in Fig. 3 and Figs. 8-9 (under the same iteration
number for different methods) show that SepPGD effectively alleviates the spectral bias of SepNN
to improve convergence, thus better capturing image details and structures. Figs. 10-12 (under the
same iteration number for different methods) show that SepPGD does not affect the generalization
ability of the SepNN for image inpainting, even leads to improvements in most time. This shows
the robustness and effectiveness of the proposed SepPGD for preserving the generalization while
accelerating training convergence. In Fig. 7, we show the PSNR vs. iteration curves using original
sized images. SepPGD clearly enhances the convergence speed and alleviates spectral bias of the
SepNN by observing the convergence curves.
Surface Representation. The 3D surface representation in Fig. 3 is conducted on the Thai statue
dataset (Saragadam et al., 2023; Shi et al., 2025) (304 × 512 × 262 occupancy cube). In the mod-
ulation function g(λ), we set k = 20 for SepPGD. All MLPs and factor MLPs in SepNNs are
parameterized by the SIREN structure (Sitzmann et al., 2020), a well-studied method in INRs. We
run 1000 iterations for all methods to ensure fair comparisons between their convergence behavior.
We utilize the Adam optimizer (Kingma & Ba, 2015) with learning rate 0.005 and without weight
decay. The rank of the CP SepNN is set as 200. The network width is set as 256. The depth of
MLPs is set to 3. The preconditioner of each method is updated once every 10 iterations. Here, the
CP SepNN and SepPGD are the three-dimensional case in Deﬁnition 1 (D = 3). Since the MSK run
out of memory for full-batch settings in our platform, we do not compare this method for surface
representation. Although we can run the MSK using mini-batch versions (Shi et al., 2025) (i.e., by
35


sampling a part of training samples in each iteration), we remark that our theory and algorithm are
mainly derived for full-batch settings, and hence comparing with mini-batch methods is not manda-
tory. In contrast, our SepPGD can be efﬁciently implemented for full-batch algorithms by virtue of
the O(nD) complexity. Deriving the training dynamics and implicit regularization of mini-batch
algorithms are promising directions for future researches.
PINN. Following the framework of separable PINNs as introduced in (Cho et al., 2023), our ex-
periments are performed on the 3D diffusion, Helmholtz, and Klein-Gordon equations (Figs. 4, 13,
and 14). For the detailed formulations of these equations, we refer readers to equations (51)–(59)
in (Cho et al., 2023). Unlike the loss function used in (Cho et al., 2023), the physics-informed loss
in our experiments contains four components: the PDE residual loss, the initial condition loss, the
boundary condition loss, and an additional data loss. Here, the data loss corresponds to training
the PINN model using a set of grid-based training points, which enables the application of the pro-
posed SepPGD algorithm via the ℓ2-norm of the data loss. We also apply SepPGD to the initial and
boundary condition losses. For the PDE residual loss, which involves derivatives, we do not employ
the SepPGD algorithm, as extending PGD to derivative-based losses requires substantially different
algorithmic treatment. We leave this promising direction to future work.
In the modulation function g(λ), we set k = 5 in SepPGD for the data loss in PINNs, while setting
k = 2 for boundary and initial losses after trial-and-error parameter tuning. All MLPs and factor
MLPs in SepNNs are parameterized by the SIREN structure (Sitzmann et al., 2020) to enhance the
convergence for PINNs. We run 5000 iterations for all methods to ensure fair comparisons between
their convergence behavior. We utilize the Adam optimizer (Kingma & Ba, 2015) with learning rate
0.005 and without weight decay. The rank of the CP SepNN is set as 64. The network width is
set as 64 as well. The preconditioners for the three loss functions (data, boundary, and initial loss
functions) are computed at initialization and remain ﬁxed throughout the training process to reduce
computational cost, since we need to update three preconditioners for the PINN. For each example,
we sample 16 × 16 × 16 grid collocation and training points, while evaluating the trained models on
30 × 30 × 30 grid testing points to test the generalization ability. The number of layers in all MLPs
is set to 4 by following (Cho et al., 2023). The results in Figs. 4, 13, and 14 show that SepPGD has
substantial potential in accelerating the convergence of separable PINNs.
LLM use. LLMs were rarely used in this paper to polish writing. All technical contents and con-
ceptualizations were made by humans.
36