SEQUENCES OF LOGITS REVEAL THE LOW RANK
STRUCTURE OF LANGUAGE MODELS
Noah Golowich∗
Microsoft Research
nzg@cs.utexas.edu
Allen Liu∗
UC Berkeley
aliu42@berkeley.edu
Abhishek Shetty∗
MIT
shetty@mit.edu
ABSTRACT
A major problem in the study of large language models is to understand their
inherent low-dimensional structure. We introduce an approach to study the low-
dimensional structure of language models at a model-agnostic level: as sequential
probabilistic models. We first empirically demonstrate that a wide range of mod-
ern language models exhibit low-rank structure: in particular, matrices built from
the model’s logits for varying sets of prompts and responses have low approximate
rank. We then show that this low-rank structure can be leveraged for generation
— in particular, we can generate a response to a target prompt using a linear com-
bination of the model’s outputs on unrelated, or even nonsensical prompts.
On the theoretical front, we observe that studying the approximate rank of lan-
guage models in the sense discussed above yields a simple universal abstraction
whose theoretical predictions parallel our experiments. We then analyze the rep-
resentation power of the abstraction and give provable learning guarantees.
1
INTRODUCTION
Understanding the structure of language has been a long-standing goal in computer science, motivat-
ing various fundamental models (Shannon, 1951; Chomsky, 2002) such as Hidden Markov Models
(HMMs), finite state automata, and formal grammars (see (Jurafsky & Martin, 2025)).
Such questions have taken on a new light in recent years with the advent of Large Language Models
(LLMs); despite extensive study, though, their success at modeling language has largely eluded a
mathematically rigorous understanding. Such an understanding, while of interest in its own right,
is also crucial when it comes to evaluating the possible risks associated with LLMs. Indeed, a
sizeable literature has uncovered surprising ways to bypass the safety mechanisms of LLMs (e.g.,
(Wei et al., 2023; Zou et al., 2023)) as well as ways they can become misaligned during training
(Razin et al., 2024; Betley et al., 2025). Understanding and defending these vulnerabilities often
requires mathematical insight into the model’s workings (Elhage et al., 2021; Olsson et al., 2022;
Turner et al., 2023; Arditi et al., 2024).
One of the principal ingredients we still lack when it comes to obtaining a more solid theoretical
foundation for studying LLMs are simple universal abstractions that are realistic enough to make
testable predictions about deployed LMs and are mathematically tractable enough to support prov-
able guarantees. Many such models have been proposed, ranging from simple types of transformers
(Sanford et al., 2024), to low-depth circuits (Merrill & Sabharwal, 2023). While such frameworks
have led to important insights, e.g., regarding expressivity, most of them are limited in the types of
models they can represent (e.g., transformers of a certain depth (Merrill & Sabharwal, 2025)) or to
certain types of tasks (e.g., RL fine-tuning (Foster et al., 2025)). Further, they are often not very
capable of making precise predictions about the structure and behavior of modern LLMs.
In this paper, inspired by the folklore belief that language possesses intrinsic low-dimensional struc-
ture, we propose an architecture-agnostic framework which allows us to study how information in
language is represented in low-dimensional subspaces. In particular, we study logit matrices associ-
ated to any language model (Section 1.1). This approach treats the language model as a sequential
∗Equal contribution.
1


101
102
Rank
10
1
2 × 10
1
3 × 10
1
4 × 10
1
6 × 10
1
KL Divergence
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(a) OLMo-7b low-rank approximation
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
Token Position
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
KL Divergence
Lingen; total=4.95
Lingen (single-token variant); total=14.41
Short history (length 5); total=17.56
End of stage 1 ckpt; total=6.55
(b) Performance of LINGEN with OLMo-1b
Figure 1: (a): Low-rank approximation error (measured by average KL divergence; see Theo-
rem 3.1) of the extended logit matrix for OLMo-7b, and ranks 5-500. For fixed sets H, F, the
approximation errors for the logit matrix LM(H, F) behave according to a similar power law as to
those of various sub-matrices with {2, 4, 8, 16}-times fewer entries. Dashed line at top shows perfor-
mance of a (suboptimal) rank-1 baseline. (b): Performance of our generation procedure (LINGEN;
star markers) which exploits the low-rank structure of the extended logit matrix to generate from
a given “target” prompt by only querying the language model on nonsensical prompts unrelated to
the target. We plot the KL divergence between LINGEN and the true language model (OLMo-1b) at
each token position, as well as various baselines (solid lines; see Section 3.3).
probabilistic map from sequences to sequences, sidestepping architecture-specific details. A start-
ing point for our work is the observation that the logit matrices associated to modern autoregressive
LLMs are well-approximated by low-rank matrices (Section 3.1). Additionally, this low-rank struc-
ture can be exploited to exhibit several surprising phenomena, such as the ability to generate from
a given model by only querying it on unrelated or even nonsensical prompts (Sections 3.2 and 3.3).
Moreover, such a low-rank assumption yields a rich theoretical landscape, from both a learning-
theoretic and generative modeling standpoint (Section 4).
1.1
STRUCTURE ARISES FROM THE EXTENDED LOGIT MATRIX
Our goal is to study low-dimensional representations of language models: what aspects of the model
should such a representation capture? One natural requirement is that it allows us to compress
the past in order to generate the future. Perhaps the most fundamental and extensively-studied
type of such compressions are those which are linear, in the following sense. For a sequence of
tokens h (e.g., a prompt), the compression consists of a vector ϕ(h) ∈Rd so that the probability
of observing any possible completion f (e.g., a response) is proportional to exp(⟨ϕ(h), ψ(f)⟩), for
some embedding vector ψ(f) ∈Rd depending only on f.
We remark that a very similar setup has been considered in the context of LLMs, when the sequence
f consists of a single token: for essentially all modern LLMs, due to the structure of the unembed-
ding matrix, the probability of observing a single token y following a sequence h is proportional
to exp(⟨ϕ(h), ψ(y)⟩), for some embedding maps ϕ, ψ. This property has been termed the softmax
bottleneck (Yang et al., 2017), and has had a broad array of implications, ranging from expressivity
and architecture (Press & Wolf, 2016; Kanai et al., 2018; Ganea et al., 2019; Chang & McCallum,
2022; Godey et al., 2024) to security (Carlini et al., 2024; Finlayson et al., 2024). However, this
observation only allows us to reason about one token in the future. The key insight of our work is
that this low-dimensionality persists, even when we consider logits over longer sequences of tokens.
To study this low-dimensionality over longer sequences, we introduce the extended logit matrix as
our main object of study. Its rows are indexed by all possible sequences of tokens, which we refer
to as histories. Roughly speaking, its columns are also indexed by all possible sequences, to be
interpreted as possible completions of a history; we refer to them as futures. In essence, the entry
of the extended logit matrix corresponding to a given (h, f) pair and a language model M is given
by log PrM[f | h], i.e., the logarithm of the probability that M assigns to f given context h. This
2


choice is natural given the above discussion— indeed, the fact that log PrM[f | h] ≈⟨ϕ(h), ψ(f)⟩
for some feature mappings ϕ, ψ (as discussed above), is equivalent to the following statement:
The (extended) logit matrix is approximately low-rank for modern language models.
The main premise of this work is that the above statement is true for modern autoregressive LLMs.
While we cannot construct the entire extended logit matrix (which is exponentially large), we can
construct submatrices indexed by sets of histories H and futures F, and measure how the low-rank
structure of these submatrices (denoted LM(H, F)) evolves with their size (Figure 1). As is shown,
this approximate low-rank structure is remarkably consistent as we scale up the number of histories
and futures. We emphasize both that this low-rank structure is atypical for a (random) matrix of the
same dimensions and that it is not a consequence of the low-rank structure of the single-token logit
matrix (see Section C). For the formal definition of the extended logit matrix, which differs slightly
from the simplified description here, we refer the reader to Section 2.
1.2
OUR CONTRIBUTIONS
In this paper, we conduct a thorough empirical study of the extended logit matrix across both a wide
range of LLMs and choices for the histories and futures, and complement our empirical findings with
theoretical results on expressivity and learnability. Our framework suggests a number of intriguing
open questions relating to interpretability, safety, and the theoretical underpinnings of LLMs.
Empirical Findings: low-rank structure.
In Section 3.1, we study the extended logit matrices
defined by a wide range of language models, and sources of histories and futures. We observe that
the extended logit matrices are all well-approximated by low-rank matrices, and that the quality of
the best low-rank approximation follows a power law which is strikingly consistent as the matrix is
scaled up. We also observe that the low-rank structure is not present at the beginning of training, but
rather emerges in the early stages of pre-training and further evolves throughout training.
Empirical Findings: consequences of low-rank structure.
Given that the extended logit matrix
is typically well-approximated by a low-rank matrix, a natural follow-up question is to understand
the implied linear dependencies between the rows (i.e., histories) of the matrix. Such linear depen-
dences may be seen as generalizations of classical examples such as boy −girl ≈king −queen
(Mikolov et al., 2013). In Section 3.2, we verify that these linear dependencies are consistent across
the extended logit matrices of different LLMs. More surprisingly, they remain preserved even if
we significantly change the futures (i.e., columns) of the matrix, replacing the original futures with
nonsensical futures consisting of random sequences of tokens.
The fact that an LLM’s low-rank structure is preserved even when prompted with nonsencial (ran-
dom) sequences inspires us to investigate (in Section 3.3) the following setup for language gen-
eration. Given any target prompt (i.e., history), using an appropriate extended logit matrix we
can approximately write it as a linear combination of unrelated, even nonsensical, histories. We
can then use this linear combination to generate a continuation to the target, by only querying the
model on the unrelated histories. We find that this procedure generates coherent continuations, and
its KL-divergence to the true model beats strong baselines, e.g., intermediate training checkpoints
(Figure 1b). Such a procedure has the potential to circumvent defenses, such as prompt filters (Dong
et al., 2024), established to ensure safety; we discuss further implications for AI safety in Section 3.3.
Theoretical Framework.
In addition, a key aspect of our framework is that it supports a simple
theoretical generative model that captures the low-rank structure that we find. Our empirical ob-
servations inspire us to revisit the Input Switched Affine Network (ISAN) of Foerster et al. (2017).
ISANs were initially proposed as a simple, interpretable recurrent architecture, where a low dimen-
sion hidden state is updated through a linear transformation that is allowed to depend on the current
sampled token, and were shown to achieve reasonable performance on language modeling tasks. We
show that ISANs capture precisely those distributions that have (exact) low logit rank (Theorem 4.3).
To support the tractability and usefulness of ISAN as a theoretical model, we first study its repre-
sentation power, showing that it can express state space layers, the key component of a variety of
practically successful architectures broadly termed state space models (SSMs (Gu et al., 2021a; Gu
& Dao, 2023; Gu, 2025)). We also show that it can express algorithmic behaviors like copying and
noisy parity — the latter having implications for learnability. Since noisy parity is hard to learn
3


(Blum et al., 2003), efficiently learning an ISAN from samples is impossible in the worst case. In
light of this, we give a provably efficient learning algorithm with logit queries, a setting that closely
resembles practical model stealing setups for common APIs (Carlini et al., 2024).
Related work.
We give a more detailed discussion of related work in Section A.
2
SETUP AND NOTATION
Our main object of study is autoregressive language models. We denote such models with the
letter M and the associated set of tokens with Σ. For a token z ∈Σ and a context sequence
y1:t = (y1, . . . , yt) ∈Σt, we will denote the corresponding probability distribution over the next
token by PrM[· | y1:t], i.e., PrM[z | y1:t] is the probability that the next token is z ∈Σ. We let Σt
and Σ≤t represent sequences of length t and at most t, respectively, while Σ⋆denotes the set of all
sequences of tokens. Note that these include the empty string, which we denote by Null. We use ◦
to denote the concatenation of two sequences, i.e., y ◦y′ denotes the concatenation of y and y′.
To formally introduce the key object that we study, the extended logit matrix, we first define the
mean-centered logits; while empirically mean-centering doesn’t make a large difference, it will be
important for the theoretical generative model that we introduce later on (see Remark 1).
Definition 2.1 (Mean-Centered Logits). Given a sequence y1:t ∈Σt, we define the mean-centered
logits as LM[z|y1:t] = log PrM[z|y1:t] −
1
|Σ|
P
z′∈Σ log PrM[z′|y1:t] for z ∈Σ.
Given a model M and sets H, F ⊂Σ⋆consisting of sequences of tokens, the extended logit matrix
LM(H, F) has rows indexed by H and columns indexed by F × Σ; accordingly, we will write
LM(H, F) ∈RH×(F×Σ). We refer to elements of H as histories and of F as futures. Formally:
Definition 2.2 (Extended Logit Matrix). Fix a model M. Given subsets of histories H ⊂Σ∗and
futures F ⊂Σ∗, the associated extended logit matrix LM(H, F) ∈RH×(F×Σ) is defined for h ∈H
and (f, z) ∈F × Σ by
LM(H, F)(h,(f,z)) := LM[z | h ◦f].
Schematically, for histories H = {h1, . . . , hH} and futures F
= {f1, . . . , fF }, the matrix
LM(H, F) has one block of length |Σ| for each history-future pair (hi, fj) and that block contains
the (mean-centered) next-token logits for hi ◦fj:
LM(H, F) =


{LM[z | h1 ◦f1]}z∈Σ
· · ·
{LM[z | h1 ◦fF ]}z∈Σ
...
...
...
{LM[z | hH ◦f1]}z∈Σ
· · ·
{LM[z | hH ◦fF ]}z∈Σ

.
In the remainder of this paper, we will refer to the extended logit matrix as simply the logit matrix.
Relation to Simplified Definition in Section 1.1.
The definition above, while slightly modified
from the definition introduced in Section 1.1, serves as a linear representation in almost the same
sense. Observe that if we set F = Σ≤T , then a row LM({h}, F) contains all of the information
necessary to sample a continuation of h of up to length T. This is because, from the information in
this row, we can compute log Pr[f|h] for any f ∈Σ≤T by breaking up f = z1:t into tokens and
summing up the token-by-token log conditional probabilities
log Pr[f|h] = log Pr[zt|h ◦z1:t−1] + · · · + log Pr[z1|h] .
If we ignore the normalizing constant and replace the mean-centered logits with normalized logits,
then the above is actually a linear function of the entries in the row LM({h}, F). The main purpose
of writing the extended logit matrix in this new form in Theorem 2.2 is that the logits can be more
directly extracted from the model.
3
EXPERIMENTS
3.1
LOW RANK STRUCTURE
In this section, we evaluate the extent to which the logit matrices associated to modern LLMs (The-
orem 2.2) are actually low-rank. To do so, we computed logit matrices LM(H, F) corresponding
4


to various models M and sets H, F of sequences. The sets H, F were generated as follows starting
from a dataset D, according to some parameter n ∈N. We sampled 2n sequences from D and for
each of the 2n sequences included a random subsequence of it in either F or H (so that each of F, H
ends up with n subsequences). We studied a broad range of datasets D and open-source models M;
precise details regarding the choices of D, M as well as H, F may be found in Section B.1.1. For
the figures shown in the main body of the paper, the dataset D was always taken to be the wiki
split of olmo-mix-1124 (OLMo et al., 2024).
We considered various values of n, ranging up to 104. Note that the full logits matrix LM(H, F)
has n2 · |Σ| entries, which is not feasible to store given that for many models (e.g., OLMo) |Σ| ≈
105. Thus, in our experiments we used instead a sub-matrix of LM(H, F), which we denote by
LM,k(H, F), for some parameter k. The submatrix LM,k(H, F) is obtained by selecting a subset of
the columns as follows: for each future f ∈F, we select the columns indexed by (f, z) where z is
one of the k most-likely tokens following f, i.e., for which PrM[z | f] is largest. In our experiments
we took k = 50; in Section B.1.5 we also repeated some experiments for (a) k = 200 and (b) where
a random subset of k = 50 tokens was selected for each f, and observed similar results. At a high
level, LM,k(H, F) can be interpreted as containing information about the model’s predictions for
the most-likely next tokens for each possible context h ◦f (with h ∈H, f ∈F). We measured the
degree to which the resulting logit matrix LM,k(H, F) is well-approximated by a low-rank matrix in
two ways, discussed below. For ease of notation, we omit the parameter k (and ignore the distinction
between LM(H, F) and LM,k(H, F)) in our description of the experiments throughout this section.
100
101
102
103
Singular Value Index
10
2
10
1
100
101
Normalized Singular Value
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
Figure 2: OLMo-7b singular values;
Power law exponent α ≈0.536
Method 1: measuring the singular value decay.
In Fig-
ure 2 (and Figure 7, which shows additional LLMs), we
display the singular values of the logits matrix LM(H, F)
for various choices of models M and various sizes n of the
sets H, F, when the dataset D was wiki. The singular val-
ues decay approximately according to a power law, in that
the ith singular value σi of the matrix LM(H, F) is approx-
imately C · i−α for some C, α > 0 (depending on M).
As shown in Figures 2 and 7, the exponent α for most logit
matrices is slightly greater than 1/2; this holds as well for
additional choices of the dataset D (see Figure 9 in the ap-
pendix). Intriguingly, α = 1/2 represents a phase tran-
sition for low-rank approximation, in the following sense
(see Fact B.1 for a formal statement): if α > 1/2, then for any constant ε, there is a constant rε
depending only on ε so that a rank-rε matrix ε-approximates the logit matrix. On the other hand, if
α < 1/2, then for sufficiently small constants ε, a rank linear in the dimension is needed.
When it comes to approximating the logit matrices of language models, we are most interested in
the setting where H, F contain all possible histories and futures (or at least those that are plausible
in natural language), as then the logits matrix LM(H, F) contains all the next-token prediction
information in the language model. In this setting, the logit matrix’s dimensions are exponential in
the length of the sequences, meaning that the case of power law decay with α < 1/2 requires that
the rank be exponentially large to achieve approximation error less than some absolute constant.
This is in contrast to constant rank for the case α > 1/2 which we observe in Figures 2, 7 and 9.
While it is infeasible to compute the logits matrix when H, F are taken to be the sets of all histories
and futures, it is apparent in the figures that the exponent of the power law remains essentially
unchanged when we consider sub-matrices of LM(H, F) (modulo some degeneration of the power
law at ranks that approach the size of H, F, which is expected). Thus, as H, F are scaled up, we
expect that the same power law holds.
Method 2: measuring the approximation via KL divergence.
While measuring the decay of
singular values of a matrix is mathematically convenient (in the sense of, e.g., Fact B.1), it does not
directly yield a probabilistic interpretation of the fact that the logit matrix LM(H, F) is close to
another (low-rank) matrix. To bridge this gap, we observe that any matrix L ∈RH×(F×Σ) (e.g., a
logit matrix LM(H, F)) induces a collection of |H||F| “next token distributions” on Σ by taking
the softmax of the vector Lh,f := (Lh,(f,z))z∈Σ, for each h, f. (Indeed, recall from Theorem 2.2
5


that when L = LM(H, F), we have Lh,f = LM[· | h◦f].) In place of Frobenius norm, we propose
to measure the average KL divergence between these distributions:
Definition 3.1 (Average KL divergence). Fix sets H, F ⊂Σ⋆, and consider matrices L, A ∈
RH×(F×Σ). We define Davg
KL (L, A) to be the average KL divergence between the next-token dis-
tributions induced by the entries of Lh,f and Ah,f for each (h, f) pair:
Davg
KL (L, A) =
1
|H||F|
X
h∈H,f∈F
DKL(softmax(Lh,f)∥softmax(Ah,f)).
Thus, for a low-rank matrix A, the quantity Davg
KL (LM(H, F), A) may be interpreted as the ability of
the low-rank matrix A to approximate the model M in KL divergence, when restricted to contexts
h ◦f for h ∈H, f ∈F. It is straightforward to show (see Fact B.2) that we may bound
Davg
KL (LM(H, F), A) ≤
1
|H|·|F| · ∥LM(H, F) −A∥2
F . Combining this fact, Fact B.1, and the ob-
served decay in singular values in Figure 2, we should expect the average KL divergence between
LM(H, F) and a rank-r approximation to decay at least as fast as a power law (in r). This predic-
tion is confirmed in Figure 1a (see also Figures 8 and 10 in the appendix), where we also observe
consistency in the power law as the matrix size is increased, suggesting that such a low-rank ap-
proximation holds when H, F are even exponentially large.
101
102
Rank
10
1
KL Divergence
0B tokens
1B tokens
21B tokens
49B tokens
126B tokens
273B tokens
609B tokens
1280B tokens
2622B tokens
main
Figure 3: Low-rank approximations
(wrt. avg. KL divergence) over Stage-
1 pretraining of OLMo-1b.
Evolution of approximation during the course of train-
ing.
One intriguing exception to the findings discussed
above is that for a “baseline” model M corresponding to the
“Step 0” checkpoint of OLMo-1b (i.e., before any training
steps), the logit matrix does not appear to exhibit low-rank
structure: see Figure 7d in the appendix, where we have
α ≈0.374. Further, while the KL divergence to a low-rank
approximation does decrease with the rank (Figure 8d), this
decrease does not seem to follow a consistent power law as
the matrix’s size is increased, suggesting that for larger sets
H, F such a decrease may be diminished. These observa-
tions lead us to ask: At what point in training does the logit
matrix become (approximately) low rank?
To answer this question, we show, in Figure 3, the average KL divergence to a low-rank approxi-
mation for the logit matrices at various pre-training checkpoints of OLMo-1b (given a fixed set of
H, F each of size approximately 4000). Early in training, the KL divergence to a low-rank approxi-
mation drops significantly, then rises slowly towards its final value. This observation suggests many
fascinating questions for follow-up work, foremost amongst them: How and why does low-rank
structure in the logit matrix emerge early in pre-training?
3.2
SHARED STRUCTURE ACROSS MODELS & FUTURES
Next, we proceed to discuss some consequences of the (approximate) low-rank structure of the logit
matrix LM(H, F). One of the most basic facts about low-rank matrices is that they have nontrivial
(row) kernels, i.e., if a matrix A ∈RH×(F×Σ) (say, an approximation of LM(H, F)) has rank much
less than |H|, then there is a large space of nonzero vectors v ∈RH for which v⊤· A = 0.
What does the existence of such vectors mean? Roughly speaking, such vectors v represent “linear
relationships” between different histories. Studying such linear relationships has been a mainstay
of NLP over the last decade, with a simple example being relationships between word embeddings
such as: boy −girl ≈king −queen (Mikolov et al., 2013). When it comes to logit matrices, do
such linear relationships manifest in ways that correspond to semantic relations between histories?
Towards answering this question, we first describe the following “sanity check”: for the sets of
histories H and futures F considered in Section 3.1, for each h ∈H we computed the h′ ̸= h in H
minimizing the norm of the difference between the corresponding rows of the logit matrix, namely
LM({h}, F) −LM({h′}, F). Some samples of resulting pairs are shown in Table 1, where it can
be seen that most of the pairs of histories share semantic similarities.
6


0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
Figure 4: Cos of principal angles be-
tween column spaces of low-rank apx
of LM(H, F) & LM(H, Fnonsense).
Systematic evaluation: description.
We aim to more
systematically evaluate whether vectors v ∈RH describ-
ing linear relationships between rows (i.e., histories) of
A ≈LM(H, F) are inherent to the histories themselves,
as opposed to being spurious artifacts of either the model
architecture or the set of futures F. If indeed such vec-
tors v were not spurious, then we would expect that: the
induced linear relationship given by such vectors transfers
(a) across the choice of futures F and (b) across models M.
In other words (regarding (a)): given distinct sets of futures
F, F′ (drawn from different distributions), after choosing
low-rank matrices A, A′ satisfying A ≈LM(H, F) and
A′ ≈LM(H, F′), the row kernels of A, A′ should be roughly equal. This would mean that approx-
imate linear relationships between the rows of LM(H, F) are also approximate linear relationships
between the rows of LM(H, F′), and thus these relations are between the histories themselves,
independent of the choice of futures.
Equivalently, since the column span of a matrix is the orthogonal complement of the matrix’s row
kernel, we expect that the column spans of A, A′ should be roughly equal. Moreover (regarding
(b)), a similar conclusion should hold if A, A′ were low-rank approximations of LM(H, F) and
LM ′(H, F) for distinct models M, M ′.
Invariance to the choice of F: “nonsense” futures.
To evaluate the above hypothesis regarding
differing sets F, F′ of futures: for a fixed model M (taken to be OLMo-1b), and sets H, F as con-
structed in Section 3.1, we create a “nonsense” version Fnonsense of F by randomly permuting all
tokens amongst futures of F. Given a parameter r ∈N, we let A ∈RH×(F×Σ) (resp., Anonsense) de-
note the best rank-r approximation to LM(H, F) (resp., LM(H, Fnonsense)) in Frobenius norm. Are
the column spaces of A, Anonsense approximately equal? In Figure 4, we answer this by plotting, for
various values of r, the (cosines of the) principal angles between the column spans of A, Anonsense.1
A large fraction of the principal angles are close to 0, i.e., have cosines close to 1 (and this fraction
is much larger than for a pair of independent uniformly random r-dimensional subspaces, which is
shown in the dashed lines). This means that the column spaces of A, Anonsense are mostly overlap-
ping, and thus linear relationships between histories transfer to significantly different sets of
futures.
The above experiment demonstrates that the model’s logits LM[· | h◦f nonsense], for a history h ∈H
and a “nonsense” future f nonsense ∈Fnonsense, still yield significant information about h ◦f, for
real futures f ∈F. In particular, given a vector v representing some linear relationship between
histories in the sense that v⊤· LM(H, Fnonsense) ≈0, we typically have also v⊤· LM(H, F) ≈0.
Invariance to the choice of M.
In Figure 12 in the apppendix, we test the additional hypothesis
of whether the linear relationships between histories are shared across different models. We observe
a similar overlap between the column spaces of low-rank approximations to LM(H, F) for various
pairs (M, M ′) of distinct models. This means that, at least to some extent, these linear relationships
are inherent to the sentences themselves, independent of the choice of model.
3.3
EXPLOITING LOW RANK FOR GENERATION
Finally, we investigate one consequence of the fact that there are “linear relationships” between
histories as captured by vectors v ∈RH satisfying v⊤· LM(H, F) ≈0, and moreover that these
relationships transfer to (potentially unrelated) sets of futures. We will show how to exploit these
relationships to approximately generate samples from a language model M conditioned on some
“target history”, by only querying M on unrelated sequences. In particular, consider some sequence
htarg ∈Σ⋆; typically, to generate continuations f = (z1, . . . , zm) of htarg under M, having gener-
1Given two d-dimensional subspaces S, S′ ⊂Rn, the principal angles between S, S′ are a collection of d
real numbers θ1, . . . , θd ∈[0, π/2] with θ1 ≤· · · ≤θd which represent how much S, S′ overlap: if S = S′
then we have θi = 0 for all i, and if S, S′ are orthogonal then we have θi = π/2 for all i. See (Golub &
Van Loan, 2013, Section 12.4.3) for further discussion.
7


Figure 5: Linear generation (LINGEN) procedure for generating text from a target history using
linear combinations of other histories H = {h1, . . . , hn}.
ated z1:t−1, we query PrM[· | htarg ◦z1:t−1] and sample zt from it. (For t = 1, the sequence z1:0 is
to be interpreted as the empty sequence.)
We ask: Can we generate a continuation of htarg as above without making any queries of the form
PrM[· | htarg ◦z1:t−1]? To answer this question, suppose we are given a set of histories H ⊂Σ⋆, as
well as a vector v = (vh)h∈H ∈RH. One should interpret v as encoding a way to write htarg as a
linear combination of h ∈H in the sense that for a generic set F of futures we have LM(htarg, F) ≈
v⊤· LM(H, F). If this holds, then for “typical” sequences z1:t−1 we have generated, we can hope
that M’s next-token distribution, LM({htarg}, {z1:t−1}), is close to v⊤· LM(H, {z1:t−1}).
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
Token Position
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
2.00
KL Divergence
Lingen; total=2.85
Lingen (single-token variant); total=10.79
Short history (length 5); total=17.77
End of stage 1 ckpt; total=6.46
Figure 6: LINGEN with OLMo-1b.
The above intuition suggests the following procedure to
generate a sequence of tokens z1, z2, . . .. For each t ≥1,
having generated z1:t−1, for each h ∈H, we compute the
next-token logit vector Lh,t := LM[· | h ◦z1:t−1] ∈RΣ
corresponding to h. Then we sample the next token zt from
the linear combination of the vectors Lh,t as induced by
v, i.e., zt ∼softmax
 P
h∈H vh · Lh,t

, and repeat for
some number m of steps.
We call this procedure LIN-
GEN; see Figure 5 for an overview, Algorithm 1 (in the ap-
pendix) for a complete description, and Section D.4 for a
proof that LINGEN generates approximately from M’s dis-
tribution, under appropriate assumptions paralleling the in-
tuitions discussed above. We instantiate LINGEN in two different manners:
Option 1: In-distribution target.
In our first experiment, the target htarg is “in-distribution” for
the set of histories H we use in LINGEN: in particular, the set H is taken to be subsequences of
wiki sequences and htarg is taken to be a subsequence of a wiki sequence distinct from all of
those producing H. We considered 50 different choices of htarg, and for each generated 5 sequences
of length 15 according to LINGEN. The results are shown in Figure 6: we display, at each token
index t, the KL divergence between the distribution of the next token according to LINGEN (namely,
softmax
 P
h∈H vh · Lh,t

) and the model M (namely, PrM[· | h ◦z1:t−1]), averaged over all
250 generations. The “total” numbers reported in the figure represent the average KL divergence,
summed over all 15 positions. See Table 2 for some samples generated from LINGEN.
To compute the coefficients v for use by LINGEN, we regressed the rows of LM(H, F) onto
LM({htarg}, F).
Doing so requires knowledge of LM(htarg, F) and thus requires us to query
PrM[· | htarg ◦f] for each f ∈F. We expect that, however, by using our observations around
model transferability from Section 3.2, such a vector v can be computed instead using some other
(perhaps less powerful) model M ′. We leave further investigation on this point to future work.
In Figure 6, we also display several baselines in which LINGEN is replaced either by (a) in orange,
a version of LINGEN where v is only computed by only using, for each history, the next-token
8


logits corresponding to the empty future (i.e., LM(H, {∅})), (b) in green, a version of M with
restricted context window; or (c) in red, an earlier training checkpoint of M. We emphasize that (a)
performs well at generating the first token z1 (as expected), but performs significantly worse at later
tokens zt, t > 1: this point emphasizes the importance of considering the extended logit matrix
LM(H, F) as opposed to the single-token logit matrix which has been considered in prior works
(Yang et al., 2017). Altogether, LINGEN performs significantly better than all baselines. 2
Option 2: Out-of-distribution target (& futures).
Next, we consider a more challenging setting
where the target htarg is unrelated to the set of histories H used in LINGEN. We took the same 50
targets htarg (origining from wiki) as described above, but now let the set of histories H be the set
Hnonsense obtained by randomly permuting all tokens amongst all elements of H. Moreover, when
computing v, we replace the set of futures F with Fnonsense (i.e., obtained by randomly permuting
all tokens). The results are shown in Figure 1b; while the KL divergences corresponding to LINGEN
are generally larger than in Figure 6, they are still smaller than all baselines, and the generated
sequences (Table 3) generally show clear evidence of incorporating information from htarg. Thus,
by using the low-rank structure of the logit matrix, we can generate starting from a prompt by
only querying the model at (nonsense) sequences unrelated to the prompt. While we leave a
more thorough investigation for future work, we believe that this approach suggests novel ways
to create jailbreaks for LLMs, an area that has seen extensive work recently (Wei et al., 2023; Yi
et al., 2024): for instance, querying the model on sequences in Hnonsense as above may allow us to
circumvent input filters which aim to filter out harmful prompts; see Section E for further discussion.
In addition to implications for AI safety, we stress that the structure we observe is fundamental and
could lead to many other applications ranging from computational efficiency at inference time to
improved training procedures. We discuss this and other future directions in Section E.
4
THEORETICAL RESULTS
In the following sections, we will develop theoretical foundations for understanding low logit rank.
Definition 4.1 (Logit Rank). A language model M has logit rank d if for any set of histories H ⊂Σ∗
and futures F ⊂Σ∗, the matrix LM(H, F) has rank at most d.
We will show that low logit rank is equivalent to a simple generative model and then explore the rep-
resentation power of this model. Finally, we will show that given query access to a language model
with low logit rank, we can efficiently learn a description of a language model that approximates it
well in TV distance. These results taken together establish low logit rank as a natural and tractable
theoretical model for understanding language models.
4.1
A LOW RANK GENERATIVE MODEL
Our first main result is demonstrating that the low logit rank condition can be captured by a simple
generative model. The idea is to consider a version of a linear dynamical system model but with
two important differences: (1) the dynamics are allowed to depend on the current sampled token
and the current timestep and (2) the observations are generated through a softmax nonlinearity. This
model is an extension of the Input Switched Affine Network (ISAN) model studied by Foerster et al.
(2017) as an interpretable recurrent architecture (see Theorem D.1), with the difference being that
our model allows the dynamics to change every timestep. We call our model a time-varying ISAN.
Definition 4.2 (Time-varying ISAN). A time-varying ISAN of sequence length T is specified by
matrices Az,t ∈Rd×d, Bt ∈RΣ×d for z ∈Σ, t ∈[T] and an initial state x0 ∈Rd. It defines
a distribution over sequences of tokens z1, z2, . . . , zT by: zt is sampled from softmax(Btxt−1).
Then, the hidden state is updated as xt = Azt,txt−1 3. We refer to d as the hidden dimension4 .
2In general, LINGEN improves at later tokens; we believe this holds since for such tokens, the distribution
of the next token depends more on the “more recent” previously generated tokens z1:t−1 (as opposed to htarg),
and these tokens are fed into the model to compute Lh,t. One exception is that LINGEN performs very well at
the first token, which may be since the single-token logit matrix of LLMs is low-rank (see Section 1).
3Note that incorporating a bias term, i.e. xt = Azt,txt−1 +bzt,t, is equivalent to adding an extra dimension
that is always 1. Thus, we will use the above form without the bias term.
4For simplicity, we will not have an end-of-sequence token, but will treat the time-varying ISAN language
model as defining a distribution over sequences of a fixed length.
9


The (time-varying) ISAN captures the linear compression perspective since the hidden state xt can
be seen as a compression of the history {zi}t
i=1 that is sufficient to generate the future {zj}T
j=t+1.
This definition also exhibits a general form of relational linearity (see e.g. Marconato et al. (2024);
Hernandez et al. (2023); Paccanaro & Hinton (2002)) — any sequence of tokens, not just those
expressing relations in a typical semantic sense, can be viewed as a linear operation applied to the
embedding (the hidden state) of the history before it.
As mentioned, a similar time-invariant model has been studied by Foerster et al. (2017) for its
interpretability, but our perspective differs because rather than viewing it as a separate architecture,
we treat it as a generative model that can approximate modern language models. In fact, the work
by Foerster et al. (2017) supports the usefulness of this model as a theoretically tractable surrogate,
as although far from state of the art, it can achieve relatively coherent language modeling at small
scales. We present a new motivation for studying this model by proving that the extended logit
matrix being low rank is equivalent to a language model being expressible as a time-varying ISAN.
Theorem 4.3 (Equivalence between Low Logit Rank and Time-Varying ISAN). Let M be a lan-
guage model over sequences of length T. Then M is expressible as a time-varying ISAN with hidden
dimension d if and only if the logit matrix LM(Σt, Σ≤T −t) has rank at most d for all t ≤T.
4.2
REPRESENTATION POWER
We show that ISANs can represent a variety of simple architectures and languages. Specifically,
we show that they can represent linear SSM layers, and can express copying and noisy parity. The
formal statements and proofs are deferred to Section D.2.
4.3
PROVABLE LEARNING GUARANTEES
Given that ISANs can express noisy parity, and the standard cryptographic assumption on the hard-
ness of learning a noisy parity, it is computationally hard to learn an ISAN from samples (see The-
orem D.13). To circumvent this, we consider a logit query model, where the learner can query the
logits for the next token given any history. This model mirrors settings for practical model steal-
ing attacks e.g. (Carlini et al., 2024), for stealing the embedding dimension and output embedding
matrix for production language models and also connects to classical and modern works on compu-
tational learning theory (Angluin, 1987; Mahajan et al., 2023; Liu & Moitra, 2025).
Our main result is the following theorem, which shows that given logit query access to a time-varying
ISAN, we can efficiently learn a time-varying ISAN that approximates it well in TV distance.
Theorem 4.4. Given logit query access to an unknown time-varying ISAN M over ΣT with hidden
dimension at most d, there is an algorithm that uses poly(d, |Σ|, T, 1/ϵ) runtime and queries and
returns a description of a time-varying ISAN M ′ such that E[DTV(M, M ′)] ≤ϵ.
5
CONCLUSIONS
Our paper develops a simple but mathematically justified framework built on the low-rank structure
of the extended logit matrix and demonstrates its empirical predictive power across different models,
data, and tokenizers. We believe this low-rank generative viewpoint will provide a general model-
agnostic foundation for understanding, probing, and steering language models. While some of the
empirical demonstrations in this paper such as LINGEN are proof-of-concept, we believe this lens
points to many promising future directions, both for new understandings and practical applications,
which we discuss in more detail in Section E.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
AL was supported by a Miller Research Fellowship. We are grateful to Adam Block, Akshay Krish-
namurthy, and Ankur Moitra for helpful comments.
10


ETHICS STATEMENT
We view the results in this paper as fundamental research and do not see ethical concerns. While
some of the insights may eventually lead to attacks or jailbreaks against LLMs, discovering such
attacks is an important part of the research process, and we believe that the benefits outweigh the
concerns and that the insights in this paper will help towards better defenses as well.
REPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT
Full experimental specifications are described in detail in Section B, and full proofs of our theoretical
results are given in Section D. We plan to make the code for our experiments available.
REFERENCES
Naman Agarwal, Daniel Suo, Xinyi Chen, and Elad Hazan. Spectral state space models, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06837.
Armen Aghajanyan, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Sonal Gupta. Intrinsic dimensionality explains the ef-
fectiveness of language model fine-tuning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.13255, 2020.
Dana Angluin. Learning regular sets from queries and counterexamples. Information and computa-
tion, 75(2):87–106, 1987.
Andy Arditi, Oscar Obeso, Aaquib Syed, Daniel Paleka, Nina Panickssery, Wes Gurnee, and Neel
Nanda. Refusal in language models is mediated by a single direction. Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems, 37:136037–136083, 2024.
Borja Balle, Xavier Carreras, Franco M Luque, and Ariadna Quattoni. Spectral learning of weighted
automata: A forward-backward perspective. Machine learning, 96(1):33–63, 2014.
Jan Betley, Daniel Tan, Niels Warncke, Anna Sztyber-Betley, Xuchan Bao, Mart´ın Soto, Nathan
Labenz, and Owain Evans. Emergent misalignment: Narrow finetuning can produce broadly
misaligned llms, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17424.
Avrim Blum, Adam Kalai, and Hal Wasserman. Noise-tolerant learning, the parity problem, and the
statistical query model. Journal of the ACM (JACM), 50(4):506–519, 2003.
Samuel Bowman, Luke Vilnis, Oriol Vinyals, Andrew Dai, Rafal Jozefowicz, and Samy Bengio.
Generating sentences from a continuous space. In Proceedings of the 20th SIGNLL conference
on computational natural language learning, pp. 10–21, 2016.
Nicholas Carlini, Daniel Paleka, Krishnamurthy Dj Dvijotham, Thomas Steinke, Jonathan Hayase,
A Feder Cooper, Katherine Lee, Matthew Jagielski, Milad Nasr, Arthur Conmy, et al. Stealing
part of a production language model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.06634, 2024.
Haw-Shiuan Chang and Andrew McCallum. Softmax bottleneck makes language models unable
to represent multi-mode word distributions. In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics, volume 1, 2022.
Chi-Tsong Chen. Linear system theory and design. Oxford university press, 1999.
Noam Chomsky. On nature and language. Cambridge University Press, 2002.
Tri Dao and Albert Gu. Transformers are ssms: Generalized models and efficient algorithms through
structured state space duality. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.21060, 2024.
Misha Denil, Babak Shakibi, Laurent Dinh, Marc’Aurelio Ranzato, and Nando De Freitas. Predict-
ing parameters in deep learning. Advances in neural information processing systems, 26, 2013.
11


Zhichen Dong, Zhanhui Zhou, Chao Yang, Jing Shao, and Yu Qiao. Attacks, defenses and evalua-
tions for llm conversation safety: A survey, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.
09283.
Manfred Droste, Werner Kuich, and Heiko Vogler. Handbook of weighted automata. Springer
Science & Business Media, 2009.
Nelson Elhage, Neel Nanda, Catherine Olsson, Tom Henighan, Nicholas Joseph, Ben Mann,
Amanda Askell, Yuntao Bai, Anna Chen, Tom Conerly, et al. A mathematical framework for
transformer circuits. Transformer Circuits Thread, 1(1):12, 2021.
Aaron Grattafiori et al. The llama 3 herd of models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2407.21783.
Gemma Team et al. Gemma 3 technical report, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.
19786.
Matthew Finlayson, John Hewitt, Alexander Koller, Swabha Swayamdipta, and Ashish Sabharwal.
Closing the curious case of neural text degeneration. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.01693, 2023.
Matthew Finlayson, Xiang Ren, and Swabha Swayamdipta. Logits of api-protected llms leak pro-
prietary information. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.09539, 2024.
Jakob N Foerster, Justin Gilmer, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Jan Chorowski, and David Sussillo. In-
put switched affine networks: An rnn architecture designed for interpretability. In International
conference on machine learning, pp. 1136–1145. PMLR, 2017.
Dylan J. Foster, Zakaria Mhammedi, and Dhruv Rohatgi. Is a good foundation necessary for efficient
reinforcement learning? the computational role of the base model in exploration, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07453.
Octavian Ganea, Sylvain Gelly, Gary B´ecigneul, and Aliaksei Severyn. Breaking the softmax bottle-
neck via learnable monotonic pointwise non-linearities. In International Conference on Machine
Learning, pp. 2073–2082. PMLR, 2019.
Mor Geva, Avi Caciularu, Kevin Ro Wang, and Yoav Goldberg.
Transformer feed-forward
layers build predictions by promoting concepts in the vocabulary space.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2203.14680, 2022.
Nathan Godey, ´Eric de la Clergerie, and Benoˆıt Sagot.
Why do small language models un-
derperform? studying language model saturation via the softmax bottleneck.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.07647, 2024.
Yoav Goldberg and Omer Levy. word2vec explained: deriving mikolov et al.’s negative-sampling
word-embedding method. arXiv preprint arXiv:1402.3722, 2014.
Gene H Golub and Charles F Van Loan. Matrix computations. JHU press, 2013.
Albert Gu.
On the tradeoffs of state space models and transformers, 2025.
URL https:
//goombalab.github.io/blog/2025/tradeoffs/.
Albert Gu and Tri Dao. Mamba: Linear-time sequence modeling with selective state spaces. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2312.00752, 2023.
Albert Gu and Tri Dao. Mamba: Linear-time sequence modeling with selective state spaces. In First
Conference on Language Modeling, 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=
tEYskw1VY2.
Albert Gu, Karan Goel, and Christopher R´e. Efficiently modeling long sequences with structured
state spaces. arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.00396, 2021a.
12


Albert Gu, Isys Johnson, Karan Goel, Khaled Saab, Tri Dao, Atri Rudra, and Christopher R´e. Com-
bining recurrent, convolutional, and continuous-time models with linear state space layers. Ad-
vances in neural information processing systems, 34:572–585, 2021b.
Ankit Gupta, Albert Gu, and Jonathan Berant. Diagonal state spaces are as effective as structured
state spaces. Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:22982–22994, 2022.
Elad Hazan and Karan Singh. Introduction to online control, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2211.09619.
Roee Hendel, Mor Geva, and Amir Globerson. In-context learning creates task vectors. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.15916, 2023.
Evan Hernandez, Arnab Sen Sharma, Tal Haklay, Kevin Meng, Martin Wattenberg, Jacob Andreas,
Yonatan Belinkov, and David Bau. Linearity of relation decoding in transformer language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.09124, 2023.
Joao P Hespanha. Linear systems theory. Princeton university press, 2018.
Daniel Hsu, Sham M Kakade, and Tong Zhang. A spectral algorithm for learning hidden markov
models. Journal of Computer and System Sciences, 78(5):1460–1480, 2012.
Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang,
Weizhu Chen, et al. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. ICLR, 1(2):3, 2022.
Samy Jelassi, David Brandfonbrener, Sham M. Kakade, and Eran Malach. Repeat after me: Trans-
formers are better than state space models at copying. In Forty-first International Conference on
Machine Learning, ICML 2024, Vienna, Austria, July 21-27, 2024. OpenReview.net, 2024. URL
https://openreview.net/forum?id=duRRoGeoQT.
Daniel Jurafsky and James H. Martin. Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural
Language Processing, Computational Linguistics, and Speech Recognition with Language Mod-
els. 3rd edition, 2025. URL https://web.stanford.edu/˜jurafsky/slp3/. Online
manuscript released August 24, 2025.
Thomas Kailath. Linear systems, volume 156. Prentice-Hall Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1980.
Sekitoshi Kanai, Yasuhiro Fujiwara, Yuki Yamanaka, and Shuichi Adachi. Sigsoftmax: Reanalysis
of the softmax bottleneck. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 31, 2018.
Angelos Katharopoulos, Apoorv Vyas, Nikolaos Pappas, and Franc¸ois Fleuret. Transformers are
rnns: Fast autoregressive transformers with linear attention. In International conference on ma-
chine learning, pp. 5156–5165. PMLR, 2020.
Omer Levy and Yoav Goldberg. Linguistic regularities in sparse and explicit word representations.
In Proceedings of the eighteenth conference on computational natural language learning, pp.
171–180, 2014.
Bohan Li, Hao Zhou, Junxian He, Mingxuan Wang, Yiming Yang, and Lei Li. On the sentence
embeddings from pre-trained language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.05864, 2020.
Kenneth Li, Aspen K Hopkins, David Bau, Fernanda Vi´egas, Hanspeter Pfister, and Martin Watten-
berg. Emergent world representations: Exploring a sequence model trained on a synthetic task.
ICLR, 2023.
Allen Liu and Ankur Moitra. Model stealing for any low-rank language model. In Proceedings of
the 57th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, pp. 1755–1761, 2025.
Gaurav Mahajan, Sham Kakade, Akshay Krishnamurthy, and Cyril Zhang. Learning hidden markov
models using conditional samples. In The Thirty Sixth Annual Conference on Learning Theory,
pp. 2014–2066. PMLR, 2023.
13


Emanuele Marconato, S´ebastien Lachapelle, Sebastian Weichwald, and Luigi Gresele. All or none:
Identifiable linear properties of next-token predictors in language modeling.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.23501, 2024.
Kevin Meng, David Bau, Alex Andonian, and Yonatan Belinkov.
Locating and editing factual
associations in gpt. Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:17359–17372, 2022.
William Merrill and Ashish Sabharwal. The parallelism tradeoff: Limitations of log-precision trans-
formers. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 11:531–545, 2023. doi:
10.1162/tacl a 00562. URL https://aclanthology.org/2023.tacl-1.31/.
William Merrill and Ashish Sabharwal. A little depth goes a long way: The expressive power of
log-depth transformers, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.03961.
Tom´aˇs Mikolov, Wen-tau Yih, and Geoffrey Zweig. Linguistic regularities in continuous space
word representations. In Proceedings of the 2013 conference of the north american chapter of the
association for computational linguistics: Human language technologies, pp. 746–751, 2013.
Elchanan Mossel and S´ebastien Roch. Learning nonsingular phylogenies and hidden markov mod-
els. In Proceedings of the thirty-seventh annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing, pp.
366–375, 2005.
Neel Nanda, Andrew Lee, and Martin Wattenberg. Emergent linear representations in world models
of self-supervised sequence models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.00941, 2023.
Team OLMo, Pete Walsh, Luca Soldaini, Dirk Groeneveld, Kyle Lo, Shane Arora, Akshita Bha-
gia, Yuling Gu, Shengyi Huang, Matt Jordan, Nathan Lambert, Dustin Schwenk, Oyvind Tafjord,
Taira Anderson, David Atkinson, Faeze Brahman, Christopher Clark, Pradeep Dasigi, Nouha
Dziri, Michal Guerquin, Hamish Ivison, Pang Wei Koh, Jiacheng Liu, Saumya Malik, William
Merrill, Lester James V. Miranda, Jacob Morrison, Tyler Murray, Crystal Nam, Valentina Py-
atkin, Aman Rangapur, Michael Schmitz, Sam Skjonsberg, David Wadden, Christopher Wil-
helm, Michael Wilson, Luke Zettlemoyer, Ali Farhadi, Noah A. Smith, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi.
2 OLMo 2 Furious, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00656.
Catherine Olsson, Nelson Elhage, Neel Nanda, Nicholas Joseph, Nova DasSarma, Tom Henighan,
Ben Mann, Amanda Askell, Yuntao Bai, Anna Chen, et al. In-context learning and induction
heads. arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.11895, 2022.
Alberto Paccanaro and Geoffrey E. Hinton. Learning distributed representations of concepts using
linear relational embedding. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 13(2):
232–244, 2002.
Kiho Park, Yo Joong Choe, and Victor Veitch. The linear representation hypothesis and the geometry
of large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.03658, 2023.
Krzysztof Pietrzak. Cryptography from learning parity with noise. In International Conference on
Current Trends in Theory and Practice of Computer Science, pp. 99–114. Springer, 2012.
Ofir Press and Lior Wolf. Using the output embedding to improve language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1608.05859, 2016.
Lawrence Rabiner and Biinghwang Juang. An introduction to hidden markov models. ieee assp
magazine, 3(1):4–16, 2003.
Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi
Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J. Liu. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-
text transformer. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 21(140):1–67, 2020. URL http:
//jmlr.org/papers/v21/20-074.html.
Noam Razin, Sadhika Malladi, Adithya Bhaskar, Danqi Chen, Sanjeev Arora, and Boris Hanin.
Unintentional unalignment: Likelihood displacement in direct preference optimization. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2410.08847, 2024.
14


Mark Rudelson and Roman Vershynin. Non-asymptotic theory of random matrices: extreme singu-
lar values, 2010. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1003.2990.
Clayton Sanford, Daniel Hsu, and Matus Telgarsky. One-layer transformers fail to solve the in-
duction heads task. CoRR, abs/2408.14332, 2024. URL https://doi.org/10.48550/
arXiv.2408.14332.
Claude E Shannon. Prediction and entropy of printed english. Bell system technical journal, 30(1):
50–64, 1951.
Eric Todd, Millicent L Li, Arnab Sen Sharma, Aaron Mueller, Byron C Wallace, and David Bau.
Function vectors in large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.15213, 2023.
Alexander Matt Turner, Lisa Thiergart, Gavin Leech, David Udell, Juan J Vazquez, Ulisse Mini, and
Monte MacDiarmid. Activation addition: Steering language models without optimization. arXiv
e-prints, pp. arXiv–2308, 2023.
Alexander Wei, Nika Haghtalab, and Jacob Steinhardt. Jailbroken: How does llm safety training
fail? Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:80079–80110, 2023.
Zhilin Yang, Zihang Dai, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and William W Cohen. Breaking the softmax
bottleneck: A high-rank rnn language model. arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.03953, 2017.
Sibo Yi, Yule Liu, Zhen Sun, Tianshuo Cong, Xinlei He, Jiaxing Song, Ke Xu, and Qi Li. Jailbreak
attacks and defenses against large language models: A survey, 2024. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2407.04295.
Qingru Zhang, Minshuo Chen, Alexander Bukharin, Nikos Karampatziakis, Pengcheng He,
Yu Cheng, Weizhu Chen, and Tuo Zhao. Adalora: Adaptive budget allocation for parameter-
efficient fine-tuning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.10512, 2023.
Xunjie Zhu and Gerard De Melo. Sentence analogies: Linguistic regularities in sentence embed-
dings. In Proceedings of the 28th international conference on computational linguistics, pp.
3389–3400, 2020.
Andy Zou, Zifan Wang, Nicholas Carlini, Milad Nasr, J Zico Kolter, and Matt Fredrikson.
Universal and transferable adversarial attacks on aligned language models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.15043, 2023.
A
RELATED WORK
Low Rank Structure in Language Models
There has been significant work understanding the
implications of the low rank structure in the next-token logit matrix. In particular, the output em-
bedding matrix constrains the vector of next-token logits to be in a space of dimension equal to the
hidden dimension (rather than the vocabulary size) and thus limits the family of conditional distribu-
tions that can be realized. This phenomenon, often called the softmax bottleneck, was formalized in
Yang et al. (2017). The implications of this for language modeling are also studied in Press & Wolf
(2016); Kanai et al. (2018); Finlayson et al. (2023). Furthermore, recent works study this softmax
bottleneck from a different perspective, showing that it leaks information about models even behind
black-box APIs and results in vulnerabilities to model stealing attacks (Finlayson et al., 2024; Car-
lini et al., 2024). However, these works all focus on just the next-token logit matrix, whereas our
framework allows us to reason about generating much longer sequences.
There have also been many works that observe low-rank structure in the weight matrices of machine
learning models, dating back to the early days of deep learning (Denil et al., 2013), and this has
been used to understand (Aghajanyan et al., 2020) and develop efficient methods for fine-tuning
large models e.g. LoRA and its variants (Zhang et al., 2023; Hu et al., 2022). While similar in
philosophy, our approach is very different because it is model-agnostic, does not involve looking at
the weights, but instead finds low-rank structure directly in the logits over sequences of tokens.
15


Linear structure in word embeddings has been observed in well-known works (Mikolov et al., 2013;
Goldberg & Levy, 2014; Levy & Goldberg, 2014) and also to some extent for sentence embeddings
(Zhu & De Melo, 2020; Bowman et al., 2016; Li et al., 2020). The linear representation hypothesis
is, informally, the idea that concepts are represented linearly as directions in some representation
space. Park et al. (2023) propose a formalization of this notion for language models, showing that
certain concepts for the next token, such as gender, can be represented linearly in either the logit
vector or the last hidden state. There have also been many works, that broadly fall under mechanistic-
interpretability, on probing and steering using the linear representations in internal layers of the
model e.g. Elhage et al. (2021); Meng et al. (2022); Hernandez et al. (2023); Nanda et al. (2023);
Turner et al. (2023); Todd et al. (2023); Hendel et al. (2023); Li et al. (2023); Geva et al. (2022).
Compared to these aforementioned works, our framework only uses the output logits, but also allows
us to reason about generating longer sequences of tokens (beyond just the next token). It is an
exciting direction to try to extract features and perform interventions through the representations
provided by our framework.
Related Theoretical Models
Linear dynamical systems form the basis of control theory and are
also the key building block in modern state-space models. Given the vast literature in control theory,
we refer the reader to (Kailath, 1980; Chen, 1999) for a classical treatment and (Hazan & Singh,
2025) for a modern treatment. A sequence of works over the past few years (Gu et al., 2021a; Gu &
Dao, 2023; Katharopoulos et al., 2020; Dao & Gu, 2024; Gupta et al., 2022; Gu et al., 2021b) has
led to the development of modern state-space models, introducing additional twists such as selective
gating (which is related to the token-dependent transitions we use) and connections to linearized
transformers. Further connections to linear dynamical systems have led to new theoretically mo-
tivated architectures (Agarwal et al., 2024). We believe our work presents a new perspective that
is both theoretically and empirically justified, while maintaining the conceptual simplicity of linear
dynamical systems.
In terms of simpler, mathematically tractable generative models, the ISAN model is related to
weighted finite automata (Droste et al., 2009) and hidden Markov models (HMMs) (Rabiner &
Juang, 2003), except with the addition of a softmax nonlinearity to sample the next token. This non-
linearity significantly improves its empirical performance on language modeling compared to these
earlier models (Foerster et al., 2017). There have been many earlier works studying the learnabil-
ity of these classical models such as Mossel & Roch (2005); Hsu et al. (2012); Balle et al. (2014).
Query learning settings have been classically studied in the literature on learning automata and for-
mal languages (Angluin, 1987), and more recently received renewed interest in the context of model
stealing for large language models (Mahajan et al., 2023; Liu & Moitra, 2025). Compared to these
works which study classical models (e.g. HMMs), we believe the theoretical work here takes another
step closer to modern language models.
B
EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS
B.1
ADDITIONAL EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS FROM SECTION 3.1
B.1.1
SETUP FOR EXPERIMENTS
Choice of datasets and models.
We considered the following choices for the autoregressive lan-
guage model M and the dataset D:
1. The model M was chosen amongst OLMo-1b, Olmo-7b (OLMo et al., 2024), Llama-1b (et al.,
2024), Mamba-1.4b (Gu & Dao, 2024), Gemma-1b (et al., 2025). Moreover, as a baseline com-
parison, we considered the checkpoint for OLMo-1b at time step 0 of training.
2. The dataset D was chosen amongst:
the wiki,
arxiv,
starcoder subsets of
the olmo-mix-1124 (OLMo et al., 2024) training dataset;
the math subset of the
dolmino-mix-1124 dataset (OLMo et al., 2024); and the c4 dataset (Raffel et al., 2020).
Next, we detail the construction of the sets H, F from a dataset D. The datasets D we used each
consisted of a collection of many sequences, i.e., we have D = {y(1), . . . , y(N)} for some large N.
16


Construction of histories.
To generate a set H of histories of size n, we fixed parameters
ℓmin, ℓmax. We first chose a random subset S of n elements of D of length at least ℓmax (as measured
by the number of characters).5 For each sequence y ∈S, we selected a uniformly random contigu-
ous subsequence of y of length ℓmax. We then chose ℓ∼Unif[ℓmin, ℓmax], and added sequence
y1:ℓto H (rounded to the nearest full word). We opted to measure length (and perform truncation)
with respect to characters (as opposed to tokens) since we wish to use the same set of histories (and
futures) for different models, which typically have different tokenizers.
Construction of futures.
The set of futures F was generated identically to the set H of histories,
with the exception that in the context of the previous paragraph, yℓ:|y| (where |y| denotes the length
of y) was added to F.
Computation of the exponent α.
To compute the power law exponents α shown in Figures 2
and 7, we used least-squares regression, as follows. Given a matrix L ∈Rn×m (where n ≤m),
we let its singular values, arranged in decreasing order (excluding the largest) be σ1, . . . , σn−1. We
performed a 2-dimensional linear regression with covariates (log(i/n), log((n −i)/n)) and labels
log σi, for i ∈[n −1]. Adding the covariate log((n −i)/n) yielded a better fit as it accounts for the
precipitous drop in σi as i approaches the number of rows n (when the power law as described in
Section 3.1 ceases to describe the decay of the singular values σi). The resulting coefficient for the
log((n −i)/n) covariate was always very small, meaning that its effect was negligible for i ≪n.
Moreover, in the regression, the data point corresponding to index i was weighted by 1/i. We
chose this weighting (as opposed to, say, uniformly weighting all data points) to account for the
logarithmic scale of the covariates in terms of their dependence on i.
B.1.2
DETAILS FOR SINGULAR VALUE PLOTS
Recall that for an integer k, LM,k(H, F) denotes the sub-matrix obtained from LM(H, F) by select-
ing, for each f ∈F, the columns (f, z) indexed by tokens z which are one of the k most likely next
tokens following f, with respect to M. Figures 2 and 7 show the singular values for logit matrices
LM,50(H, F) for fixed sets H, F of histories and futures of size approximately 10000,6 as generated
according to the procedure from Section B.1.1. For this procedure we chose ℓmin = 50, ℓmax = 200.
The figures also show the singular values for LM,50(Hi, Fi), where Hi (resp., Fi) contains the first
|H|/
√
i (resp., |F|/
√
i) elements of H (resp., F), for i ∈{2, 4, 8, 16}. Thus the number of ele-
ments of LM,50(Hi, Fi) is roughly 1/i that of LM,50(H, F). Singular values were normalized by
the square root of the number of elements of each matrix.
Next, Figure 9 shows the singular values of LM,50(H, F) when M was OLMo-1b and H, F
were obtained via the procedure described in Section B.1.1 when the dataset D was taken to be
arxiv, starcoder, math, c4. We remark that for these plots the sets H, F were taken to be of
size only 4000.
B.1.3
DETAILS FOR KL DIVERGENCE PLOTS
Figures 1a, 8 and 10 show the average KL errors between the logit matrices considered in Figures 2,
7 and 9, respectively, to low-rank approximations. Low-rank approximations were computed using
an approximate singular value decomposition (via torch.svd lowrank) and then zeroing out
all singular values apart from the largest r ones. (Note that, for an exact SVD, this procedure gives
the closest rank-r approximation in Frobenius norm.) Since we are considering the submatrices
LM,50(H, F), these KL divergences are taken with respect to distributions restricted to the 50 most
likely tokens per future.
The dashed line at the top of the figures represents the following rank-1 baseline: for each future
f, we simply use the next-token distribution for f, i.e., PrM[· | f], to approximate all entries (i.e.,
rows) corresponding to f. We remark that this approximation is in general not the optimal rank-1
approximation to the logit matrix (with respect to Frobenius norm).
5For some of the larger datasets, we used a buffer size of at least 106 to stream the dataset, so technically
the set of histories was not a uniformly random subset.
6In particular, we generated sets H, F of size exactly 10000 and then filtered out 0-length futures, of which
there were approximately 60.
17


100
101
102
103
Singular Value Index
10
2
10
1
100
101
Normalized Singular Value
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(a) OLMo-1b; α ≈0.561
100
101
102
103
Singular Value Index
10
2
10
1
100
101
Normalized Singular Value
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(b) Gemma-1b; α ≈0.565
100
101
102
103
Singular Value Index
10
2
10
1
100
101
Normalized Singular Value
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(c) Llama-1b; α ≈0.573
100
101
102
103
Singular Value Index
10
2
10
1
Normalized Singular Value
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(d) OLMo-1b (ckpt 0); α ≈0.374
100
101
102
103
Singular Value Index
10
2
10
1
100
101
Normalized Singular Value
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(e) Mamba-1.4b; α ≈0.563
Figure 7: Singular values for LM,50(H, F) for various models M; see Section B.1.2.
18


101
102
Rank
10
1
2 × 10
1
3 × 10
1
4 × 10
1
KL Divergence
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(a) OLMo-1b
101
102
Rank
10
1
KL Divergence
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(b) Gemma-1b
101
102
Rank
10
1
KL Divergence
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(c) Llama-1b
101
102
Rank
2 × 10
1
3 × 10
1
4 × 10
1
KL Divergence
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(d) OLMo-1b (ckpt 0)
101
102
Rank
10
1
KL Divergence
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(e) Mamba-1.4b
Figure 8: Average KL divergence to a low-rank approximation for various models M; see Sec-
tion B.1.3.
19


100
101
102
103
Singular Value Index
10
2
10
1
100
101
Normalized Singular Value
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(a) arxiv;
α ≈0.598
100
101
102
103
Singular Value Index
10
2
10
1
100
101
Normalized Singular Value
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(b) c4;
α ≈0.539
100
101
102
103
Singular Value Index
10
7
10
6
10
5
10
4
10
3
10
2
10
1
100
101
Normalized Singular Value
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(c) math;
α ≈0.590
100
101
102
103
Singular Value Index
10
2
10
1
100
101
Normalized Singular Value
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(d) starcoder;
α ≈0.589
Figure 9: Singular values of the logit matrix FM,50(H, F) when H, F are chosen from various
datasets as detailed in Section B.1.1. The model M was OLMo-1b.
101
102
Rank
10
1
KL Divergence
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(a) arxiv
101
102
Rank
10
1
6 × 10
2
2 × 10
1
3 × 10
1
4 × 10
1
KL Divergence
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(b) c4
101
102
Rank
10
1
KL Divergence
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(c) math
101
102
Rank
10
1
KL Divergence
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(d) starcoder
Figure 10: Average KL errors to a low-rank approximation, for the same logit matrices as described
in Figure 9.
20


B.1.4
SUPPORTING THEORETICAL RESULTS
Below we collect a couple of standard facts which we use in our discussion of the experiments. For
completeness, we provide their proofs (which are standard).
Fact B.1 (Phase transition in singular value decay). Suppose L ∈Rn×m with n ≤m, and its
singular values σ1, . . . , σn satisfy σi ≍C · i−α, for some constants C, α > 0. Then:
1. If α
>
1/2,
then for any r
∈
N,
there is a matrix A of rank r for which
∥L −A∥F ≤∥L∥F · O(r
1
2 −α). (Here ∥· ∥F represents the Frobenius norm.)
2. If α < 1/2, then any matrix A of rank r ≤
n
21/(1−2α) satisfies ∥L −A∥F ≥Ω(∥L∥F ).
In the above statements, the O(·), Ω(·) hide absolute constants.
Proof. The fact is standard, but we provide the proof anyways. Let us suppose that C0, C1 > 0 are
so that C0 · i−α ≤σi ≤C1 · i−α for all i.
Case 1: α > 1/2.
First suppose that α > 1/2. We may write the SVD of L as Pn
i=1 σi ·
uiv⊤
i , where {ui} and {vi} are orthonormal bases of Rn and Rm, respectively. Note that ∥L∥F =
pPn
i=1 σ2
i ≥C0 · Ω
q
1
2α−1

.
Fix any r ∈N, and let A = Pr
i=1 σiuiv⊤
i . Then ∥L −A∥F =
qPn
i=r+1 σ2
i ≤C1 · O
q
r1−2α
2α−1

.
It follows that
∥L −A∥F
∥L∥F
≤O
C1
C0
· r
1
2 −α

,
where the O(·) hides dependence on an absolute constant, as desired.
Case 2: α < 1/2.
It is a standard fact that for any r, the best rank-r approximation to a matrix L
is given by truncating its SVD at rank-r, i.e., for any rank-r matrix A, we have that
∥L −A∥F ≥
L −
r
X
i=1
σiuiv⊤
i

F
=
v
u
u
t
n
X
i=r+1
σ2
i ≥C0 · Ω
 r
n1−2α −r1−2α
2α −1
!
.
But ∥L∥F ≤C1 · O
q
n1−2α
1−2α

, meaning that for r ≤
n
21/(1−2α) , we have ∥L−A∥F
∥L∥F
≥Ω(C0/C1),
as desired.
Fact B.2. Consider sets H, F of sizes n, m respectively. Then for any matrices A, A′ ∈RH×(F×Σ),
it holds that
X
h∈H,f∈F
DKL(softmax(Ah,f)∥softmax(A′
h,f)) ≤1
2∥A −A′∥2
F .
Proof. It follows immediately from the definition of average KL divergence that it suffices to prove
the following fact: if v, v′ ∈Rd, then letting p = softmax(v), p′ = softmax(v′) (so that p, p′ ∈
∆d), then we have DKL(p∥p′) ≤∥v −v′∥2
2. To prove this fact, let us define F(v) = log Pd
i=1 evi.
Then a direct computation yields
DKL(p∥p′) = F(v) −F(v′) −⟨∇F(v), v′ −v⟩.
(1)
Next, for any x ∈Rd, for q = softmax(x) we have ∇2F(x) = diag(q) −qq⊤⪯Id, i.e., F is
1-gradient Lipschitz. But this yields that the right-hand side of Equation (1) is bounded above by
1
2 · ∥v −v′∥2
2, as desired.
21


100
101
102
103
Singular Value Index
10
2
10
1
100
101
Normalized Singular Value
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(a) k = 200 sing. vals; α ≈0.543
101
102
Rank
10
1
KL Divergence
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(b) k = 200; Avg. KL Divergence
100
101
102
103
Singular Value Index
10
2
10
1
100
Normalized Singular Value
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(c) k = 50 w/ random tokens, sing. vals;
α ≈0.527
101
102
Rank
10
1
KL Divergence
Downsized by 16x
Downsized by 8x
Downsized by 4x
Downsized by 2x
Downsized by 1x
(d) k = 50 w/ random tokens; Avg. KL
Divergence
Figure 11: ((a), (b)): Low-rank approximability of LM,200(H, H). (c), (d): Low-rank approxima-
bility of ˜LM,50(H, F); see Section B.1.5.
B.1.5
ABLATIONS FOR THE PARAMETER k
Recall that our experiments exhibiting approximate low-rank structure of the logit matrix actually
apply to the sub-matrices LM,k(H, F) described in Section 3.1, for k = 50. In Figure 11, we
present two modifications to this approach (all with OLMo-1b): in Figures 11a and 11b we measure
the low-rank approximability of LM,200(H, F), for sets H, F. Due to memory limitations, we took
|H|, |F| to be of size approximately 2000 in Figure 11a and to be of size approximately 5000 for
Figure 11b.
Next, in Figures 11c and 11d, we measure the low-rank approximability of a submatrix ˜LM,50(H, F)
obtained from LM(H, F) by sampling randomly 50 tokens per future and selecting the correspond-
ing columns of LM(H, F). For these figures we used H, F of sizes approximately 4000.
All of the aforementioned ablations show similar evidence of low-rank structure similarly to the
logit matrices LM,50(H, F). We remark that, in general, as the size of H, F are increased, the fitted
power law exponent α describing the decay of the singular values tends to decrease slightly, perhaps
because the effect of the slight “hump” for the first few singular values is diminished. This may
explain why the exponents α in Figures 11a and 11c are slightly smaller than in Figure 7a.
B.2
SUBSPACE COMPARISON
Figure 4 displays the principal angles between low-rank approximations of LM,50(H, F) and
LM,50(H, Fnonsense) where the model M was OLMo-1b, H, F were generated from wiki as de-
scribed in Section B.1.1, with |H| = 10000 and where F, Fnonsense were each of size approximately
5000.7 Low-rank approximations were computed by truncating (approximate) singular value de-
compositions, as described in Section B.1.3. The dashed lines show the principal angles between a
pair of independent uniformly random subspaces of the indicated dimension. It is evident that the
7We started with sets F, Fnonsense of size 5000 and then removed a small number of 0-length futures.
22


0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(a) Gemma-1B vs Mamba-1.4B
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(b) Gemma-1B vs Olmo-7B
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(c) LlaMA-1B vs Gemma-1B
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(d) LlaMA-1B vs Mamba-1.4B
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(e) LlaMA-1B vs Olmo-1B (ckpt
0)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(f) LlaMA-1B vs Olmo-7B
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(g) Olmo-1B vs Gemma-1B
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(h) Olmo-1B vs LlaMA-1B
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(i) Olmo-1B vs Mamba-1.4B
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(j) Olmo-1B vs Olmo-1B (ckpt 0)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(k) Olmo-1B vs Olmo-7B
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(l) Olmo-1B (ckpt 0) vs Gemma-
1B
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(m)
Olmo-1B
(ckpt
0)
vs
Mamba-1.4B
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(n) Olmo-1B (ckpt 0) vs Olmo-
7B
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Index
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cosine of Principal Angle
Rank: 10
Rank: 88
Rank: 166
Rank: 244
Rank: 322
Random (Rank: 10)
Random (Rank: 88)
Random (Rank: 166)
Random (Rank: 244)
Random (Rank: 322)
(o) Olmo-7B vs Mamba-1.4B
Figure 12: Principal angles between column spaces of logit matrices across all pairs of models; see
Section B.2.
23


History
Closest history
Investigations personnel in 1927. The
name, derived from the eighth letter of the
Greek alphabet, appears to have been first
used on a 1946 Argentine government chart
following surveys
(BIT) was created on 9 December 1898, in
response to the Bombay plague epidemic of
1896. It was created
on Honest Jon’s capitalised on this with
Theo Parrish, Rashad & Spinn, Ricardo
for Nelly Furtado, N-Dubz, Nina Sky, Lil’
Flip, Noel Gourdin, Starboy Nathan,
Shawnna, Jimmy Cozier, Alison Hinds,
Jazmine Sullivan, I 20, Cory Lee, Chris
Webby, City
Shiroro Airfield is an airstrip serving the
village of Shiroro and the Shiroro
Hydroelectric Power Station in the Niger
State of Nigeria. The runway is
Canadian Forces Base located immediately
south of the town of Chatham, New
Brunswick, Canada. Parts are now
operating as Miramichi Municipal Airport
since 1974 with a partial runway
to numerous publications, and supported the
development of a range of new PES
schemes including the BioCarbon Fund at
the World Bank and the Mexican PES
as a mitigation bank providing ecosystem
services to the public in the form of
Environmental
Thereupon, Gangaram slays out Janardhan
Seth, perceiving the dirty deed angered
Rambabu reaches Janardhan Seth’s
stealing the idol’s jewellery and his wife is
accused of being a witch. They are killed by
a mysterious person after which Chandni’s
father Yash Narayana Vashisht becomes the
Mahant. Dev escapes
process of removing government-controlled
entry and price restrictions on airlines
affecting, in particular, the carriers
stated model. It maintains close ties to other
Green parties
On Spitfires. Scotland was in range of Nazi
Germany’s long-range bombers and
reconnaissance aircraft. The Luftwaffe’s
minor improvements that increased their
anti-aircraft capabilities. Their crew
numbered 228 officers and enlisted men.
The
U-boat built for the Nazi Germany’s
“Kriegsmarine” for service during World
War II.
floatplane of the 1910s produced by
Flugzeugbau Friedrichshafen.
European works, classical Chinese works
and Nˆom works into Quoc Ngu - modern
supported the creation of the Empire of
China and the 1917 Manchu
appointed Assistant Chaplain at Geelong
Grammar School from 1959 to 1961, vicar
of Romsey and Sunbury with Lancefield
from 1961 to 1964
the Young Women’s Christian Association
of New Zealand. She was a member of its
Dunedin board from 1930 until 1944,
Dunedin
Table 1: For 10 values of h ∈H (left column) we display the history h′ ∈H, h′ ̸= h minimizing
the distance between the respective rows of the logits matrix, i.e., ∥LM({h}, F) −LM({h′}, F)∥2.
Examples were not cherry-picked (they correspond to the first 10 examples in the set H described
in Section 3.1, as obtained from wiki).
24


column spaces of the logit matrices have significantly more overlap than what would be expected
from random subspaces.
In a similar manner, Figure 12 shows the principal angles between low-rank approximations of
LM,50(H, F) and LM ′,50(H, F) for each pair (M, M ′) of models described in Section B.1.1. For
these matrices, we used the same sets H, F deriving from the wiki dataset as were used in Sec-
tions B.1.2 and B.1.3. Note that all pairs of models (M, M ′) show significant overlap in the column
spaces of their logit matrices, with the exception of when either M or M ′ is the untrained variant
of OLMo-1b. This is unsurprising, given that the latter cannot be expected to capture any semantic
information in sequences. Interestingly, there is still a bit more overlap than would be expected from
random subspaces. We believe this may be because of the nature of the transformer architecture: for
instance, if two sequences are very close (e.g., differ in a single token), then it is reasonable to expect
that the next-token distributions induced by even a transformer with random weights are somewhat
close, due to the nature of attention. We leave further investigation of this point to future work.
B.3
LINEAR GENERATION
The experiments using LINGEN in Section 3.3 make use of OLMo-1b and generate for a total of 15
tokens. Below we provide details pertaining to how the coefficient vector v was chosen for each of
Option 1 and Option 2 described in Section 3.3:
Option 1.
For this case, we chose 40000 histories and 10000 futures from the wiki dataset,
as described in Section B.1.1. We chose the lengths ℓmin = 8, ℓmax = 30, but now measured the
lengths with respect to tokens (not characters), since we only intend to use the resulting histories and
futures for a single model. As in the previous sections, because the token space Σ is extremely large,
we cannot perform the regression described in Section 3.3 on the entire logit matrix LM(H, F), so
we instead used the submatrix LM,50(H, F) as described in Section 3.1.
Option 2.
For this case, we generated sets H, F of histories and futures as in Option 2, but
then randomly permuted all tokens amongst all elements of each of H and F, which yielded sets
Hnonsense, Fnonsense. The remaining details of the experiment are identical to Option 1.
Baselines.
In Figures 1b and 6 we compare the performance of LINGEN to the following baselines:
• Single-token version of LINGEN: this may be viewed as using LINGEN but where the
matrix LM,50(H, F) was replaced with LM(H, {Null}), i.e., the full logit matrix where
there is a single future, namely the empty future.
• Generation from a short context: we generate from OLMo-1b using a context window
of 5 tokens (i.e., we mask out all tokens more than 5 units in the past).
• Intermediate training checkpoint: we generate from OLMo-1b using the checkpoint
“stage1-step1907359-tokens4001B” which corresponds to the end of Stage-1 pretraining.
Algorithm 1 LINGEN Algorithm
1: Input: Language model M, histories H ⊂Σ⋆, vector v ∈RH.
2: Input: Parameter m (number of new tokens to generate)
3: function LinGenM(H, v, m)
4:
for t = 1, 2, . . . , m do
5:
Compute logitst = v⊤· LM(H, {z1:i−1}).
▷(LM(H, {z1:i−1}) is the logits matrix
where the set of futures is the singleton sequence z1:i−1.)
6:
Sample next token zt ∼softmax(logitst)
7:
end for
8:
Return: the sequence (z1, . . . , zm).
9: end function
25


LINGEN
LINGEN with single-token logit matrix
Third Sea Lord was given the command
upon taking leave from the Admiralty. He
hoisted his flag in “Bacchon” (1874), which
was in the Mediterranean under Rear
Admiral
Third Sea Lord was given the command
upon taking leave from the Admiralty. He
hoisted his flag in “Bacchusa in 1881 and
1892 compilation also showed that the
in 2007 in Rajasthan, India. Krishna Bhatt
has been twice the recipient of the Award
for literary Excellence and has been to
Ghana, Switzerland,
in 2007 in Rajasthan, India. Krishna Bhatt
has been twice the winner of the Golden
Mapuhal Trophy at the General Bob badi of
” and Katy Gibson in “Gigi” had the
world’s best-known actors and pop singers
Peter O’To
“ and Katy Gibson in “Gigi” and “Diva”
were produced, and they were thus of the
2018 including Jago Wali Raat and her first
devotional song Tor Dita Lalan Nu. For the
song God Save India, she uses traditional
instruments like Bhajan
2018 including Jago Wali Raat and her first
devotional song Tor Dita Lalan Nu.
Rebecca and Mr. Costa confess to each
other that they were falling in
KSTQ (93.5 FM) is a radio station licensed
to Stuart, Oklahoma, United States. The
station is owned by KFBL Radio and is
currently simulcasting KXLP
KSTQ (93.5 FM) is a radio station licensed
to Stuart, Oklahoma, United States. The
station is locally called “The Rock,” is
currently operated by Axion and E
Table 2: Sample generations from LINGEN (Option 1) and single-token baseline. Prompts are
shown in gray and italicized, and continuations are shown in black. Samples were not cherry-picked,
i.e., the first generation from each prompt was selected. The generations from LINGEN (left) all read
well and make clear use of context in the prompt; in contrast, while generations from LINGEN with
the single-token logit matrix (right) typically are reasonable for the first token or few, they become
derailed soon thereafter.
26


LINGEN generations with Hnonsense
Third Sea Lord was given the command upon taking leave from the Admiralty. He hoisted
his flag in “Bacchill” confusing manoeuvre that involved making the windward course.
Third Sea Lord was given the command upon taking leave from the Admiralty. He hoisted
his flag in “Bacch” for the first time. After Sapp didn’t take part in
Third Sea Lord was given the command upon taking leave from the Admiralty. He hoisted
his flag in “Bacchel” and joined with her and the USS Vixen, a
in 2007 in Rajasthan, India. Krishna Bhatt has been twice the National Head of Dairy
Labelling 2004 and 2014. He
in 2007 in Rajasthan, India. Krishna Bhatt has been twice the national shortlisting for the
International Youth Olympic Festival (IYOOF)
in 2007 in Rajasthan, India. Krishna Bhatt has been twice the author of a book entitled
‘Chaerbato Jaataa Aap
” and Katy Gibson in “Gigi”. Consists of: -lrb- lead -rrb-
” and Katy Gibson in “Gigi”, for which she received a nomination at the 2020 Jogja Music
” and Katy Gibson in “Gigi”. Music career. In addition to her television work, Bryant has
released several
2018 including Jago Wali Raat and her first devotional song Tor Dita Lalan Nu Ghareba
Hae. A new format was created by exposing a new
2018 including Jago Wali Raat and her first devotional song Tor Dita Lalan Nu, Ranthi
Narayan Thakkar are known for their voice and
2018 including Jago Wali Raat and her first devotional song Tor Dita Lalan Nu Ram”. She
made her film debut opposite Satish Kekar in Raj
KSTQ (93.5 FM) is a radio station licensed to Stuart, Oklahoma, United States. The station
is a 24/7 transmitter reports that broadcasts to Tulsa, Page,
KSTQ (93.5 FM) is a radio station licensed to Stuart, Oklahoma, United States. The station
is locally owned by Quad Cities Radio and is maintained by Educational Insights. In
KSTQ (93.5 FM) is a radio station licensed to Stuart, Oklahoma, United States. The station
is a reading of a Victim News radio station licensed to Tulsa, Oklahoma broadcasts
Table 3: Sample generations from LINGEN and single-token baseline with Hnonsense (i.e., Option
2), for the same 5 target prompts as in Table 2. Prompts are shown in gray and italicized, while
LINGEN’s generations are in black. While not all of the generations are natural continuations of the
target prompt, most of the generations show clear use of information from the prompt.
27


C
COMPARISON TO NATURAL BASELINES
In this section, we briefly discuss comparison of the low rankness of the extended logit matrix to
natural baselines. First, let us consider a random model for comparison. Recall that the extended
logit matrix LD(H, F) is a |H| × |F| · |Σ| matrix. A matrix of the same dimension with i.i.d.
Gaussian entries, denoted by G (i.e., Gij ∼N(0, 1)), has a well-understood asymptotic spectrum
given by the Marchenko-Pastur law. Further, non-asymptotic bounds on the singular values of G
are also known (See e.g. (Rudelson & Vershynin, 2010)). In particular, the results suggest that
the singular values of G are all of the order Θ(√n) where n = max{|H|, |F| · |Σ|} with even the
deviation of the smallest singular value from √n being of the order Θ(n1/6). This indicates that
the singular values of G do not decay rapidly and are all of the same order and hence G is not
approximated well by a low-rank matrix.
More, interestingly in order to observe power law decays in the singular values, as noted empirically
in Section 3.1, one needs to consider matrices with dependent entries. An interesting future direction
suggested by our work is to potentially find interesting random matrix models that can be both used
to explain the power law decay in the singular values of the extended logit matrix, while also helping
us understand the underlying structure in natural language.
A second natural baseline to compare the low-rankness of the extended logit matrix that arise purely
from the low-rank structure of the single step logit matrix. To flesh this out consider, the matrix
L = LM(H, F) for H = Σt and F = Null and set ˜L = LM(H, F) for H = Σt/2 and F = Σt/2.
The choice of t/2 was made for simplicity, and the argument can be easily extended to other splits of
t. Now, from the argument regarding the low-rankness of the single step logit matrix, we have that
rank(L) ≤d but for the sake of argument let us assume that d = 1. This indicates that the rows of L
are all multiples of each other, again for simplicity assume that it is a constant multiple of e1 the first
standard basis vector. Understanding the struture of ˜L tells us that the rows of ˜L are concatenations
of the rows of L corresponding to splits of the history into two halves. But, since the coefficient
corresponding to each row of L was arbitary, the rank of ˜L corresponds to the rank of an arbitrary
matrix of dimension |Σ|t/2 × |Σ|t/2 which is exponentially large in t. Thus, the low-rankness of
the single step logit matrix does not imply any non-trivial upper bound on the rank of the extended
logit matrix. In particular, this can be seen as a strong argument for the claim that low-rankedness
of the extended logit matrix is an extremely surprising phenomena that points towards the presence
of interesting structure in natural language and models thereof.
D
DEFERRED PROOFS OF THEORETICAL RESULTS
As a reference, we first state the definition of an Input Switched Affine Network (ISAN) by Foerster
et al. (2017). Note that the difference compared to a time-varying ISAN in Theorem 4.2 is that the
transitions depend only on the current token but not on the timestep.
Definition D.1 (Input Switched Affine Network (ISAN)). An Input Switched Affine Network (ISAN)
is defined by matrices Az ∈Rd×d for each z ∈Σ and a matrix B ∈RΣ×d and an initial state
x0 ∈Rd. It defines a distribution over sequences of tokens at each timestep t = 1, 2, . . . :
• Sampling: token zt is sampled from softmax(Bxt−1).
• State Update: the hidden state is updated as xt = Aztxt−1.
First, we show an equivalence between an ISAN and a time-varying ISAN up to a factor of T in the
hidden dimension.
Fact D.2 (Reducing a Time Varying ISAN to an ISAN). For any time-varying ISAN with hidden
dimension d that generates a distribution over sequences of tokens of length T, there exists an ISAN
with hidden dimension Td that generates the same distribution.
Proof. Let the initial state of the time-varying ISAN be x0 ∈Rd and its transition and observation
matrices be Az,t ∈Rd×d, Bt ∈RΣ×d for z ∈Σ, t ∈[T]. To express this as a (time-invariant)
ISAN, we build a Td-dimensional hidden state consisting of T separate d-dimensional blocks. We
28


can then aggregate the transition and observation matrices across the different timesteps by defining
for each token z ∈Σ,
Az =


0
0
· · ·
0
0
Az,1
0
· · ·
0
0
0
Az,2
· · ·
0
0
...
...
...
...
...
0
0
. . .
Az,T −1
0


B = [B1
B2
. . . BT ] .
We let the initial state be (x0, 0, . . . , 0) i.e. x0 on the first d coordinates and 0 everywhere else.
It is immediate by construction that this ISAN is equivalent to the time-varying ISAN because at
each timestep t, the hidden state xt of the original time-varying ISAN is simply stored in the t + 1st
d-dimensional block and is moved to the next block after a transition (the state becomes identically
0 after the last transition). Thus, this ISAN generates the exact same distribution over sequences of
length T, as desired.
D.1
EQUIVALENCE BETWEEN TIME-VARYING ISAN AND LOG LOGIT RANK
This subsection is devoted to proving Theorem 4.3. We first show one direction, that low logit rank
implies expressibility as a time-varying ISAN.
Lemma D.3 (Low Logit Rank Implies Time-Varying ISAN). Let M be a language model such that
for each t ∈[T], the matrix LM(Σt, Σ≤T −t) (recall Theorem 2.2) has rank d. Then there is a time-
varying ISAN of hidden dimension d that generates the exact same distribution as M on sequences
of length T.
Proof. For each length t = 0, 1, . . . , T−1, let S(t) ⊂Σt be a (multi)set of sequences with |S(t)| = d
such that the rows of LM(S(t), Σ≤T −t) span the row space of LM(Σt, Σ≤T −t). In other words, this
is saying that the rows indexed by S(t) span all of the rows indexed by sequences of length t. Note
that such a set exists by the rank assumption — for t = 0 there is only one row, and we allow for
a multiset so if |Σt| ≤d then we can arbitrarily choose to duplicate some of the elements so that
|S(t)| = d exactly.
For each timestep t ∈[T] and token z ∈Σ we can construct a matrix Az,t ∈Rd×d such that
LM(S(t−1) ◦z, Σ≤T −t) = Az,tLM(S(t), Σ≤T −t)
(2)
where on the LHS, S(t−1) ◦z denotes the set obtained by appending the token z to each sequence
in S(t−1). The above is possible because each of these are now length t sequences in Σt and we
assumed that the rows of LM(S(t), Σ≤T −t) span all of these. Also, let Bt ∈RΣ×d be the matrix
Bt = LM(S(t), {Null})⊤where here the set of futures consists of only the empty string.
Now we claim that the ISAN defined by Az,t, Bt for z ∈Σ, t ∈[T] and initial state x0 = e1
(where e1 is the first standard basis vector) exactly samples from the distribution M over sequences
of length T. We first show by induction that if z1:t is the sequence sampled so far after t timesteps,
then the hidden state satisfies
x⊤
t LM(S(t), Σ≤T −t) = LM({z1:t}, Σ≤T −t)
(3)
for t = 0, 1, . . . , T. Note that there is only one empty string so the base case for t = 0 is obvious.
Now given the inductive hypothesis for t, we immediately have that for any choice of token zt+1,
x⊤
t LM(S(t) ◦zt+1, Σ≤T −t−1) = LM({z1:t+1}, Σ≤T −t−1)
just from Theorem 2.2, since the above is just selecting a subset of the columns of the equality in
(3). Now since xt+1 = A⊤
zt+1,t+1xt, combining with (2) gives
x⊤
t+1LM(S(t+1), Σ≤T −t−1) = LM({z1:t+1}, Σ≤T −t−1)
completing the induction. Next, it remains to show that given (3) for all t, that each token is sampled
from the same conditional distribution as M given the prefix z1:t. To see why this is the case, (3)
implies that
x⊤
t B⊤
t = x⊤
t LM(S(t), {Null}) = LM({z1:t}, {Null})
29


since this is just obtained by selecting a subset of the columns in (3). Note that LM({z1:t}, {Null})
is exactly the mean-centered next token logits conditioned on z1:t, and so for both the underlying
distribution M and the ISAN we defined, conditioned on the prefix z1:t, the next token is sampled
according to softmax(Btxt). Thus, the ISAN generates the same distribution as M, completing the
proof.
Now we prove the reverse direction that a time-varying ISAN expresses a distribution with low logit
rank.
Fact D.4 (Time-Varying ISAN has Low Logit Rank). Let M be a time-varying ISAN with hidden
dimension d that generates some distribution over sequences of tokens of length T. Then for any
t ∈[T], the matrix LM(Σt, Σ≤T −t) (recall Theorem 2.2) has rank at most d.
Proof. For any sequence h ∈Σt, let xh be the hidden state of the ISAN at timestep t, after out-
putting the sequence of tokens h. Now consider any future f ∈Σ≤T −t. Let the tokens of f be
zt+1, . . . , zt+k. Then the vector of mean-centered logits for the next token conditioned on h ◦f,
given by {LM(z|h ◦f)}z∈Σ (recall Theorem 2.1), can be obtained by taking the vector
BAzt+k,t+k · · · Azt+1,t+1xh
and then subtracting the mean from all of the entries. In other words, these logits are a linear
function of xh and there is a matrix Af ∈RΣ×d such that Afxh gives exactly the mean-centered
logits {LM(z|h ◦f)}z∈Σ. This implies, by Theorem 2.2, that we can write
LM(Σt, Σ≤T −t) =


x⊤
h1
x⊤
h2...


A⊤
f1
A⊤
f2
. . .
where the rows of the first matrix are indexed by all possible histories h ∈Σt and the second matrix
is a block matrix with blocks indexed by futures f ∈Σ≤T −t. The above factorization implies that
LM(Σt, Σ≤T −t) has rank at most d, as desired.
Remark 1 (Importance of Mean-centered Logits). Note that the mean-centering of the logits is
important for Fact D.4 to be true. Otherwise, if we used, say, normalized logits, then these logits
would no longer be a purely linear function of the hidden state xh due to subtracting the normalizing
constant which is not a linear function of the entries (whereas the mean is).
Proof of Theorem 4.3. Theorem 4.3 now follows immediately from combining Lemma D.3 and
Fact D.4.
D.2
TIME-VARYING ISAN REPRESENTATION POWER
In this section, we analyze the representation power of the time-varying ISAN, showing that it can
represent a variety of simple architectures and languages. First, we show that it can represent linear
state space layers, the core building block in modern state space models (Gu et al., 2021a; Gu &
Dao, 2023). We begin by formally defining the class of state space models that we consider.
Definition D.5 (Selective State Space layer). A selective state space layer maps a sequence of inputs
u1, . . . , uT ∈Rp to a sequence of outputs y1, . . . , yT ∈Rq and has a hidden state with dimension d.
The initial state is x0 ∈Rd and the state space layer operates according to the following recurrence:
xt = A(ut)xt−1 + B(ut)ut
yt = C(ut)xt−1 + D(ut)ut
where the matrices A(ut) ∈Rd×d, B(ut) ∈Rd×p, C(ut) ∈Rq×d, D(ut) ∈Rq×p may depend
arbitrarily on the input ut at timestep t.
Remark 2 (On Variants and Stacking of SSM Layers). This is a general form that encompasses
most definitions of a selective state space layer — implementations that are used in practice often
enforce more structure on the matrices, especially A. Earlier, simpler variants of the SSM used
time-invariant layers where A, B, C, D are all fixed, independent of T.
30


State space layers are often stacked together — although with the above form, a stack of ℓstate space
layers can be represented as a single layer with dimension ℓd as long as the transitions matrices
A(ut), B(ut), C(ut), D(ut) depend only on the external input (but not on the recursively obtained
intermediate inputs to layers in the middle, see Hespanha (2018)).
Now it is not difficult to see that an ISAN can represent a language model consisting of a selec-
tive state space layer with softmax readout and no additional nonlinearities (where the tokens are
embedded and then fed in as the inputs ut) as defined below.
Definition D.6 (Linear-in-state SSM). A linear-in-state SSM defines a distribution over sequences in
ΣT as follows. There is a selective state space layer with input, output and hidden state dimensions
p, q, d. The output tokens are obtained by sampling zt ∼softmax(Uyt) where U ∈RΣ×q is the
readout matrix and the next input is obtained as ut+1 = V e(zt) where e(zt) ∈RΣ denotes the
one-hot encoding of zt and V ∈Rp×Σ is the embedding matrix. The initial input u1 is some fixed
vector.
We now prove the following fact:
Fact D.7 (Representing Linear-in-state SSMs). A Linear-in-state SSM with input, output, and hid-
den dimension p, q, d can be expressed as an ISAN with hidden dimension d + 2q + 1 8.
Proof of Fact D.7. We
construct
an
ISAN
that
at
each
timestep
stores
ht−1
=
(xt, C(ut)xt−1, D(ut)ut, 1) as its hidden state. Note that the dimension of this is d + 2q + 1.
Now by definition, the next token zt is sampled from softmax(U(C(ut)xt−1 + D(ut)ut)) and the
vector inside the softmax is clearly a linear function of the hidden state. Next, once we fix zt, the
next input ut+1 is fixed and we have xt+1 = A(ut+1)xt + B(ut+1)ut+1, and thus the next hidden
state ht = (xt+1, C(ut+1)xt, D(ut+1)ut+1, 1) is a linear function of the previous one once ut+1 is
fixed. This implies that the entire linear-in-state SSM can be expressed as an ISAN, completing the
proof.
Next, we will also show that the ISAN model can express basic languages and algorithmic behaviors.
We show that it can solve the task of copying, i.e. generating sequences of the form a ◦a where a is
a random bitstring. This task is a standard benchmark for testing the ability of sequence models to
capture long-range dependencies and has been used to separate the power of different architectures
(Jelassi et al., 2024).
First, we formalize the task of copying as being able to sample from the following distribution.
Definition D.8 (Copying). Define the n-bit “copying” distribution as the distribution over length
2n sequences of the form a ◦a where a ∈{0, 1}n is uniformly random.
Now we prove that ISANs can express copying.
Fact D.9 (Representing Copying). There is a time-varying ISAN with hidden dimension n + 1 that
generates a distribution arbitrarily close in TV distance to the n-bit copying distribution.
Proof. Initialize the hidden state x0 to n zeros and the last bit is 1. Now for the first n steps, the
output matrices B1, . . . , Bn are all 0 (so the output is uniformly random) and the transition matrices
simply store the first n bits generated in the first n bits of the state while maintaining that the last
bit is 1. Now for the next n steps, the transition matrices are identity and the output matrices
Bn+1, . . . , B2n are
Bn+j =

0
. . .
0
. . .
0
C/2
0
. . .
C
. . .
0
0

where the last column is always the same and the column with C is the jth column and C can
be chosen arbitrarily large. Then if the jth bit of the state is 0, then the output will be 0 with
exp(C/2)/(1 + exp(C/2)) probability and if the jth bit of the state is 1, then the output will be 1
with exp(C/2)/(1 + exp(C/2)) probability. Since C can be chosen arbitrarily large, this ISAN can
generate a distribution that is arbitrarily close in TV distance to the copying distribution.
8This result can also be applied to a stack of such layers, as long as we only allow the transitions to depend
on the external input, but not the intermediate values.
31


Finally, we show that the ISAN model can generate from a noisy parity distribution. Noisy parity
is a fundamental problem that has been extensively studied in computational complexity, learning
theory, and cryptography. In fact, the hardness of learning a noisy parity from samples is a standard
cryptographic assumption (Blum et al., 2003; Pietrzak, 2012). First, we formally define a noisy
parity distribution:
Definition D.10 (Noisy Parity). A noisy parity distribution over {0, 1}n+1 is defined by a sequence
y ∈{0, 1}n and probability p ∈(0, 1/2) and is obtained by drawing z ∈{0, 1}n uniformly at
random and outputting (z, b) with b ∈{0, 1} defined as
b =
⟨y, z⟩
mod 2 with probability 1 −p
1 −⟨y, z⟩
mod 2 with probability p
Now we prove that ISANs can express any noisy parity.
Fact D.11 (Representing Noisy Parity). For any noisy parity distribution over {0, 1}n+1 , there is a
time-varying ISAN with hidden dimension 2 that exactly generates it.
Proof. We claim that for M being a noisy parity distribution, matrices LM({0, 1}t, {0, 1}≤n+1−t)
have rank at most 2 for all 0 ≤t ≤n + 1. To see this, we simply observe that each of these matrices
has at most two distinct rows — the only information in the first t bits that matters is the parity of the
inner product with y restricted to these first t bits. Now we apply Theorem 4.3 and this completes
the proof.
The fact that ISANs can represent noisy parities, combined with the following standard crypto-
graphic assumption, implies that it is computationally hard to learn an ISAN from samples, which
we state in Theorem D.13.
Assumption D.12. [Hardness of Learning a Noisy Parity] There exists no polynomial time algo-
rithm that given access to samples from a noisy parity distribution with hidden vector y can recover
a vector ˆy that is non-trivially correlated with y (say |y ⊕ˆy| < n/4).
Theorem D.13. Under Assumption D.12, there is no polynomial time algorithm that given access to
samples from a time-varying ISAN can learn a distribution that is close in total variation distance.
D.3
LEARNING AN ISAN FROM LOGIT QUERIES
In this subsection, we present the details of our algorithm for learning a time-varying ISAN from
logit queries. First, we formalize the query model.
Definition D.14 (Logit Query). The learner can specify any prefix h ∈Σ∗and obtain the mean-
centered logits LM[z|h] for z ∈Σ.
Observe that logit queries can simulate samples from the language model. We do this by repeatedly
getting the next token logits and then taking softmax to sample the next token and then repeat.
Fact D.15. Given logit query access to M, given any history h ∈Σ∗, we can sample a future f of
any length from the distribution PrM[f|h].
Definition D.16 (Slicing Notation). For any t ≤T, we will use the notation M[: t] to denote the
distribution of length t prefixes for sequences drawn from M.
Now we present and analyze the algorithm for learning from logit queries. At a high level, the al-
gorithm tries to construct “spanning” sets of histories and futures Ht, Ft for t = 0, 1, . . . , T −1.
Ideally, we would be able to ensure that the matrix LM(Ht, Ft) has rank equal to LM(Σt, Σ≤T −t)
which would mean that Ht, Ft in some sense cover all of the dimensions. Unfortunately, this guaran-
tee is not possible because the rank of LM(Σt, Σ≤T −t) could arise from some very rare sequences
that will be impossible for us to find algorithmically. We can instead guarantee a weaker notion
where we cover all dimensions that are not too rare. The algorithm, described by the subroutine in
Algorithm 3, iteratively constructs the sets Ht, Ft by adding new sequences that increase the rank of
LM(Ht, Ft) until no such sequences can be found. The key to the analysis is defining the right no-
tion of coverage so as to ensure that the algorithm terminates in polynomial time (see Lemma D.17).
We then complete the proof by showing that with this guarantee, we can construct an ISAN that is ϵ
close to the true distribution M in TV distance.
32


Algorithm 2 Learning from Logit Queries for (time-varying) ISAN
1: Input: logit query access to time-varying ISAN M
2: Initialize Ht = {yt} for an arbitrary y ∈Σ for t = 0, 1, . . . , T −1 (where y0 = Null)
3: Initialize Ft = {Null} for t = 0, 1, . . . , T −1
4: Set N = 4T/ϵ log(dT/ϵ)
5: Set {Ht}t, {Ft}t ←CompleteSpanM({Ht}t, {Ft}t, N)
6: Set initial state to be c
x0 ∈Rd as x0 = (1, 0, . . . , 0)
7: for t ∈[T −1], z ∈Σ do
8:
Solve for d
Az,t ∈R|Ht|×|Ht−1| such that
LM(Ht−1 ◦z, Ft) = d
Az,t
⊤LM(Ht, Ft) .
9: end for
10: for t ∈[T] do
11:
Set c
Bt = LM(Ht−1, {Null})⊤
12: end for
13: Pad matrices d
Az,t, c
Bt to appropriate sizes (d × d, |Σ| × d respectively) by adding rows and
columns of zeros
14: Output: ISAN with parameters c
x0, d
Az,t, c
Bt
Algorithm 3 Complete Span
1: Input: logit query access to time-varying ISAN M
2: Input: Sets Ht, Ft for t = 0, 1, . . . , T −1
3: Input: Parameter N
4: function CompleteSpanM({Ht}t, {Ft}t, N)
5:
Initialize Incomplete = True
6:
while Incomplete do
7:
Set Incomplete = False
8:
for t ∈[T −1] do
9:
Construct St by taking N i.i.d. samples from M[: t]
10:
if Rank(LM(Ht, Ft)) < Rank(LM(Ht ∪Ht−1 ◦Σ ∪St, Ft ∪Σ ◦Ft+1)) then
11:
Set Incomplete = True
12:
Find elements h ∈Ht−1 ◦Σ ∪St and f ∈Σ ◦Ft+1 such that
Rank(LM(Ht ∪{h}, Ft ∪{f})) = Rank(LM(Ht, Ft)) + 1
13:
Set Ht ←Ht ∪{h} and Ft ←Ft ∪{f}
14:
end if
15:
end for
16:
end while
17:
Return: {Ht}t, {Ft}t
18: end function
33


Lemma D.17. Algorithm 3 terminates within dT iterations of the while loop and with 1 −dT 2(1 −
ϵ/(2T))N probability, we have the following property: for any t ∈[T −1], if we draw h ∼M[: t],
then with 1 −ϵ/(2T) probability over the randomness of h,
Rank(LM(Ht, Ft)) = Rank(LM(Ht ∪Ht−1 ◦Σ ∪{h}, Ft ∪Σ ◦Ft+1))
(4)
where Ht−1 ◦Σ denotes the set of all possible sequences obtained by concatenating some element
of Ht−1 with some token in Σ.
Proof. Note that by induction, we always have |Ht| −Rank(LM(Ht, Ft)) ∈{0, 1} and |Ft| −
Rank(LM(Ht, Ft)) ∈{0, 1} (the off-by-one is just because the initial matrix could have rank 0).
Note that since M is generated by a time-varying ISAN, by Fact D.4, the rank is always at most
d. Also in each iteration of the while loop before termination, the sizes of Ht, Ft increase by 1
for at least one t. Thus, the algorithm can execute at most dT iterations of the while loop before
termination.
Next, to prove the second part of the lemma, whenever the desired property doesn’t hold for some
t ∈[T −1], then with probability at least 1 −(1 −ϵ/(2T))N, the check in the while loop will fail
and the flag Incomplete will be set to True. Thus, union bounding over every time we check the
rank condition, the overall failure probability is at most dT 2(1 −ϵ/(2T))N.
Now we can complete the proof of Theorem 4.4.
Proof of Theorem 4.4. First, note that the ISAN we construct in Algorithm 2 is well defined because
whenever Algorithm 3 terminates, we must have
Rank(LM(Ht, Ft)) = Rank(LM(Ht ∪Ht−1 ◦Σ, Ft ∪Σ ◦Ft+1))
and thus the matrix d
Az,t must exist because the rows of LM(Ht, Ft) must span the rows of
LM(Ht−1 ◦z, Ft). Also note that all of the operations in Algorithm 2 can be implemented in
poly(d, |Σ|, T, 1/ϵ) time and queries.
Now assuming that the property in Lemma D.17 holds for the output of the CompleteSpan step,
we claim that we have DTV(M, M ′) ≤0.5ϵ. For each t, let the good set Gt ⊂Σt be the subset of
histories h for which (4) holds.
Now sample token by token according to the ISAN we learn with parameters c
x0, d
Az,t, c
Bt. At
timestep t = 0, by construction, we have
c
x0
⊤LM(H0, F0) = LM({Null}, F0)
and our current string is Null. Now assume that at timestep t, we have sampled the t tokens z1:t and
the current hidden state bxt satisfies
bxt
⊤LM(Ht, Ft) = LM(z1:t, Ft) .
Then since Null ∈Ft, we get that softmax(c
Bt bxt) exactly samples the next token with the correct
probabilities. Let the next token be zt+1. If z1:t ∈Gt, then the above equality also implies
bxt
⊤LM(Ht, zt+1 ◦Ft+1) = LM(z1:t, zt+1 ◦Ft+1)
which is the same as saying
LM(z1:t+1, Ft+1) = bxt
⊤LM(Ht ◦zt+1, Ft+1)
= bxt
⊤A⊤
zt+1,t+1LM(Ht+1, Ft+1)
= d
xt+1
⊤LM(Ht+1, Ft+1) .
In other words, by induction, as long as all subsequences remain in the good sets G1, . . . , GT , then ev-
ery token is sampled according to the correct conditional distribution, matching M. By Lemma D.17
and the definition of the good sets, the probability we ever sample outside of a good set is at most
0.5ϵ. The way we set N ensures the conclusion of Lemma D.17 holds with probability at least
1 −0.5ϵ and thus the overall expected TV distance between M ′ and M is at most ϵ, as desired.
34


D.4
GENERALIZATION BOUNDS
In this section, we show a generalization bound for when the LinGen algorithm can guarantee high
accuracy. We assume that we have fixed the language model M, we have a target history h0, and
we will approximate h0 as a linear combination of “basis” histories H = {h1, . . . , hn}. We then
generate k tokens according to LinGen (Algorithm 1).
Lemma D.18 allows us to relate the linear regression error when we draw futures from an arbitrary
distribution to the KL divergence between the LinGen distribution and the ground truth distribution
for continuations of h0, as long as we have the matrix ordering inequality in (5). The main point
is that (5) and (6) (the regression error) can be tested empirically from samples because of matrix
concentration (see Fact D.20). Lemma D.18 then shows that if these quantities are sufficiently
small, then we can bound the KL divergence between the true distribution and the one obtained by
generating according to LinGen.
While our theoretical bounds are not tight enough to directly apply, we still believe this is a worth-
while conceptual point that generalization can be bounded in terms of some testable quantitative
“subspace overlap” that is related to the subspace overlap for different distributions of futures F, F′
discussed in Section 3.2. We also discuss below how we expect tighter bounds to hold in practice
due to better concentration than the “worst-case” theoretical analysis.
Lemma D.18. Define the distributions P1 and P2 as follows:
• P1 is obtained by uniformly drawing t ∈{0, 1, . . . , k −1} and then sampling uniformly at
random from Σt
• P2 is obtained by uniformly drawing t ∈{0, 1, . . . , k−1} and then sampling a continuation
to h0 of length t, according to M
Let H0 = H ∪{h0}. Assume that for some parameters α, γ,
Ef∼P2

LM(H0, {f})LM(H0, {f})⊤
⪯αEf∼P1

LM(H0, {f})LM(H0, {f})⊤
+ γIn+1 .
(5)
Then for any vector v such that
Ef∼P1
hLM({h0}, {f}) −v⊤LM(H, {f})
2i
≤∆,
(6)
if we define
• PLinGen is the distribution obtained by sampling from LinGen(v, H, k)
• Ptruth is the distribution of length k continuations of h0 according to M
then
DKL(Ptruth∥PLinGen) ≤2k
q
α∆+ γ(1 + ∥v∥2) .
Proof. Let u be the n + 1-dimensional vector u := (1, v). Taking (5) and taking the inner product
of both sides with uu⊤and then applying (6), we have
Ef∼P2
hLM({h0}, {f}) −v⊤LM(H, {f})
2i
≤α∆+ γ(1 + ∥v∥2) .
(7)
Now assume that LinGen has sampled a sequence f = z1z2 . . . zt so far. Then by the definition of
LinGen we can bound
DKL
 
PrM[·|h0 ◦f]
 PrLinGen(v,H,k)[·|f]
!
≤max
z
log PrM[z|h0 ◦f] −log PrLinGen(v,H,k)[z|f]
≤2 max
z
LM[z|h0 ◦f] −LLinGen(v,H,k)[z|f]

≤2
LM({h0}, {f}) −v⊤LM(H, {f})

(8)
35


where the arguments on the LHS are distributions over the token space Σ given by the next-token
probabilities in the two different sampling procedures. Now using the KL chain rule, we get
DKL(Ptruth∥PLinGen) = kEf∼P2
"
DKL
 
PrM[·|h0 ◦f]
 PrLinGen(v,H,k)[·|f]
!#
≤2k
q
α∆+ γ(1 + ∥v∥2)
where the last step follows by combining (7), (8) and Cauchy-Schwarz. This completes the proof.
Remark 3 (Improving the Bound by a Factor of |Σ|). The above proof can be “lossy”, costing an
extra factor of
p
|Σ| when translating from KL to L2 distance in (8). This factor can be saved,
provided that the errors in the logits are roughly uniformly distributed over the token space — this
is what we observe in practice.
We can also flip the arguments of the KL divergence to match the quantity we measured empirically
in Section 3.3, provided that the logits of the true language model are bounded.
Corollary D.19. Assume that |LM[z|h]| ≤C for any history h ∈Σ∗and token z ∈Σ. Then under
the same conditions as Lemma D.18, we also have
DKL(PLinGen∥Ptruth) ≤2(1 + k(log |Σ| + 2C))
√
k

α∆+ γ(1 + ∥v∥2)
0.25
.
Proof. Note that the assumption implies
−log PrM[z|h] ≤log |Σ| + 2C
for any h ∈Σ∗, z ∈Σ. Now we can simply combine Fact D.21 and Lemma D.18 to get
DKL(PLinGen∥Ptruth) ≤(1 + k(log |Σ| + 2C))
p
2DKL(Ptruth∥PLinGen)
≤2(1 + k(log |Σ| + 2C))
√
k

α∆+ γ(1 + ∥v∥2)
0.25
as desired.
Finally, we also state concentration bounds for being able to test (5) and (6) from samples.
Fact D.20. Let H ⊂Σ∗with |H| = n and let P be any distribution over sequences in Σ∗. Assume
that the language model M satisfies the bound |LM[·|h]| ≤C for any history h ∈Σ∗. Then with
1 −δ probability, if we let F be a subset of S ≥|Σ|2C4n2(1/ϵ)2 log(1/δ) samples drawn from P,
then

1
|F|LM(H, F)LM(H, F)⊤−Ef∼P

LM(H, {f})LM(H, {f})⊤ ≤ϵ
and consequently, for any v ∈Rn,

1
|F|
v⊤LM(H, F)
2 −Ef∼P
hv⊤LM(H, {f})
2i ≤ϵ ∥v∥2 .
Proof. For the first inequality, note that
LM(H, F)LM(H, F)⊤=
X
f∈F
LM(H, {f})LM(H, {f})⊤.
Also note ∥LM(H, {f})∥≤C
p
n|Σ| by assumption, so Matrix Bernstein immediately gives the
first inequality. The second inequality follows directly from the first by taking the inner product of
the LHS with vv⊤.
Remark 4. As before, we expect much faster concentration in practice e.g. we used a worst case
bound on the individual summands when we applied matrix Bernstein, but a much tighter bound,
that saves the dependence on |Σ|, seems to hold empirically because the columns of LM(H, {f})
are generally not too correlated with each other.
36


Fact D.21. Let P, Q be two discrete probability distributions on s elements given by P
=
{p1, . . . , ps} and Q = {q1, . . . , qs}. Assume that −log pi ≥C for all i ∈[s]. Then
DKL(Q∥P) ≤(1 + C)
p
2DKL(P∥Q) .
Proof. We can write
DKL(Q∥P) =
X
i∈[s]
qi(log qi −log pi)
≤
X
i∈[s],qi>pi
qi(log qi −log pi)
≤
X
i∈[s],qi>pi
(qi −pi)(log qi + 1 −log pi)
≤(1 + C)
X
i∈[s]
|qi −pi|
≤(1 + C)
p
2DKL(P∥Q) .
Note that for the second inequality we used the convexity of x log x and the final step follows from
Pinsker’s inequality.
E
FUTURE DIRECTIONS
Our work motivates numerous directions for future work:
• Can we better understand how the singular value decay evolves during training (recall Fig-
ure 3) and can we use it as a diagnostic for training progress?
• The low rank structure allows us to represent each history as a vector (recall Section 1.1)
— can we extract concepts and features in this representation space? This would help build
towards a model-agnostic approach to interpretability.
• Can we use LINGEN or some variation of it to bypass safety guardrails and generate re-
sponses to unsafe prompts? While, as stated, LINGEN requires querying the model on
htarg ◦f for many different choices of f, there are avenues for circumventing the need to
reveal htarg. For example, we can split up htarg = h1 ◦h2, treat h1 as the target history, and
then h2 as the first part of the generated future.
• Related to the previous question, does our framework suggest techniques for safeguarding
against such attacks?
• Can we extend our theoretical results to the case when the model is only approximately low-
rank as observed in practice? Further, it is an interesting open question to understand what
notions of approximation (e.g. total variation vs matrix norm) are theoretically feasible
while maintaining fidelity to practice.
F
STATEMENT ON USE OF LLMS
We used LLMs to help us write and refine certain fragments of code e.g. we would provide a
description of a function we wanted and ask an LLM to help us implement it. We also used LLMs
to help us find related work and references and to help polish the writing after we had a draft.
37