EXP-BENCH: CAN AI CONDUCT
AI RESEARCH EXPERIMENTS?
Patrick Tser Jern Kon1, Qiuyi Ding1, Jiachen Liu1, Xinyi Zhu1, Jingjia Peng1
Jiarong Xing2,4, Yibo Huang1, Yiming Qiu1,4, Jayanth Srinivasa3, Myungjin Lee3
Mosharaf Chowdhury1, Matei Zaharia4, Ang Chen1
1University of Michigan
2Rice University
3Cisco Research
4UC Berkeley
ABSTRACT
Automating AI research holds immense potential for accelerating scientific
progress, yet current AI agents struggle with the complexities of rigorous, end-
to-end experimentation. We introduce EXP-Bench, a novel benchmark designed
to systematically evaluate AI agents on complete research experiments sourced
from influential AI publications. Given a research question and incomplete starter
code, EXP-Bench challenges AI agents to formulate hypotheses, design and im-
plement experimental procedures, execute them, and analyze results. To enable
the creation of such intricate and authentic tasks with high-fidelity, we design a
semi-autonomous pipeline to extract and structure crucial experimental details from
these research papers and their associated open-source code. With the pipeline,
EXP-Bench curated 461 AI research tasks from 51 top-tier AI research papers.
Evaluations of leading LLM-based agents, such as OpenHands and IterativeAgent
on EXP-Bench demonstrate partial capabilities: while scores on individual experi-
mental aspects such as design or implementation correctness occasionally reach
20–35%, the success rate for complete, executable experiments was a mere 0.5%.
By identifying these bottlenecks and providing realistic step-by-step experiment
procedures, EXP-Bench serves as a vital tool for future AI agents to improve
targeted research components and agent planning ability. EXP-Bench is avail-
able at https://github.com/Just-Curieous/Curie/tree/main/
benchmark/exp_bench.
1
INTRODUCTION
EXP-Bench Dataset 
Research 
Question
High-level
Method
Starter 
Code 
Does parallel
convolution
improve..
Train a model
w/ parallel
convolution...
dataset
train.py
*Extracted from Top-Tier ML Papers
💡  Exp. Design 
Evaluate
AI Agent
Dataset
Model
Parameter
Metric
Hardware
Execute
⚙️ Exp. Impl.
 Conclusion
Parallel
convolution
improves...
train.py
run_exp.sh
def forward(self, ...):
-         x = self.conv(x)
+        x = [conv(x) for conv in 
 self.conv_list]
+        x = torch.cat(x, dim=1)
Input
Impl. : 50%
Design: 80%
Code Exec. : Failed
Conclusion: Incorrect
Perf.
Figure 1: EXP-Bench evaluates AI agents on research experiment tasks extracted semi-autonomously
from peer-reviewed AI papers. Given a research question, a high-level method description, and
starter code, agents are tasked with designing, implementing, and executing complete experiments.
Performance is validated through ground-truth comparisons and implementation execution.
Automating AI research stands as a cornerstone for accelerating the development of advanced
intelligence and human progress. Unlike disciplines that require extensive physical interaction, AI
research is inherently digital, rendering it particularly amenable to automation by Large Language
Model (LLM)-driven AI agents. Recent work has demonstrated that these agents demonstrate nascent
capabilities in tasks like literature synthesis (Elicit, 2025), hypothesis generation (Weng et al., 2025)
and code generation (Li et al., 2022). However, empirical AI research requires rigorous end-to-end
experimentation, which goes beyond these individual tasks.
1


To realize the vision of agents conducting holistic AI research, a rigorous benchmark is needed—one
that evaluates and guides agents through the full experimentation pipeline step by step. We present
EXP-Bench, a benchmark designed to comprehensively assess an AI agent’s ability to carry out
end-to-end research experiments. As illustrated in Fig. 1, EXP-Bench challenges agents with tasks
sourced from influential, peer-reviewed AI publications (e.g., NeurIPS, ICLR) along with their
open-source implementations. These papers reflect already-completed, peer-validated research and
serve as concrete exemplars of full experimental workflows. By exposing agents to such tasks, we test
their ability to conduct established scientific procedures grounded in real-world AI experimentation.
For each task, an agent is provided with a core research question, a high-level methodological
overview, and starter code. The agent should then formulate viable hypotheses, design AI-specific
experimental procedures (e.g., data handling, model selection, and hyperparameter optimization),
correctly implement and execute these experiments, and derive valid conclusions from the results.
However, curating these high-fidelity and structured experimental tasks presents considerable chal-
lenges. Academic papers typically present a polished narrative focusing on final results and conclu-
sions, often omitting the detailed intermediate steps of the experimentation process. Additionally,
critical details, such as the precise conditions under which results hold or subtle data preprocessing
steps, are often fragmented across multiple sources, including dense academic papers, supplementary
materials, and sprawling codebases. This makes manual curation of such tasks labor-intensive and
difficult to scale.
To address these challenges, we develop a semi-automated dataset curation pipeline. We first
filter for high-quality AI papers with open-source codebases using citation and repository popularity
signals. Task extraction then proceeds in two stages: (1) a multi-modal extraction phase that identifies
the core elements of the research problem, such as the main question, expected outcomes, and
high-level experimental setup (e.g., datasets, evaluation metrics, model configurations) from papers,
supplementary materials, and code; and (2) an implementation extraction phase that locates relevant
code and assembles scripts to solve the specified task. We further apply execution-based validation
to ensure functionality. While human oversight is used, the availability of original implementations
and ground truths reduces the validation burden to mostly lightweight consistency checks. With the
pipeline, EXP-Bench currently comprises 461 research tasks (12,737 individually gradable subtasks)
derived from 51 papers published at NeurIPS and ICLR 2024, spanning diverse AI subfields such as
reinforcement learning, AI applications and generative models.
We use a multi-metric evaluation pipeline (Fig. 1) to assess agent performance across all core phases
of experimentation: design, implementation, execution, and conclusion. Each metric captures a
distinct capability, and their conjunctive use ensures that agents correctly understand and complete
the experiment. Initial evaluations of leading agents reveal that, while they often succeed at executing
routine procedures, such as running pre-written scripts or replicating documented analysis steps,
they struggle when tasked with conducting complex experiments. Specifically, we observe failures
in: (a) Conceptualizing and operationalizing sound experimental designs from high-level research
questions and methods (16.1% misclassified design variables); (b) Translating abstract research
methodologies into complete and correct code implementations (39.7% missing essential implemen-
tation components); and (c) Ensuring the robust and reproducible execution of complex experimental
software stacks (29.4% environment or dependency misconfigurations or 23.8% script-level errors).
By identifying these key bottlenecks, EXP-Bench helps us target specific research components for
improvement and advance next-generation AI agents for autonomous research.
2
RELATED WORK
While existing benchmarks have advanced the evaluation of AI agents in various scientific reasoning,
coding, and specific machine learning tasks, EXP-Bench distinctively addresses the holistic challenge
of end-to-end and step-by-step AI research experimentation. See App. A for additional discussion.
Scientific Reasoning Benchmarks. Benchmarks like BoxingGym (Gandhi et al., 2025) explore
simulated theory formation, while others such as AAAR (Lou et al., 2024) and Lab-Bench (Laurent
et al., 2024) assess reasoning or experimental design based on static artifacts (e.g., protocols, figures).
While valuable for assessing abstract reasoning, these benchmarks do not evaluate the agent’s ability
to perform actual experiments.
2


Figure 2: One AI research task example from ICLR 2024 MogaNet (Li et al., 2024b).
Scientific Coding Benchmarks. Scicode (Tian et al., 2024), for instance, focuses on generating
code snippets for natural science tasks, while BLADE (Gu et al., 2024), DiscoveryBench (Majumder
et al., 2024), and ScienceAgentBench (Chen et al., 2024) primarily assess post-hoc data analysis or
hypothesis testing. While critical to the scientific process, they often isolate coding or analysis from
the broader, iterative experimental context.
Machine Learning Benchmarks. Several benchmarks specifically target ML tasks, yet often
focus on sub-components or operate with simplifications of the full research cycle. For example,
DSBench (Jing et al., 2024b), ML-Agent-Bench (Huang et al., 2023b), and MLE-Bench (Chan
et al., 2024) assess ML problem-solving capabilities, such as script editing or hyperparameter tuning,
frequently within constrained environments like Kaggle challenges. Other benchmarks such as
RE-Bench (Wijk et al., 2024), ML-Gym (Nathani et al., 2025), and Curie (Kon et al., 2025), compare
agent performance against humans on research tasks, but often operate at a limited scale (e.g., RE-
Bench features only 7 hand-curated tasks) or use simplified evaluation metrics. CORE-Bench (Siegel
et al., 2024) supplies the full codebase for result reproduction and manually sources papers from
the curated CodeOcean repository. PaperBench (Starace et al., 2025) assesses agents on tasks
derived from academic literature, focusing on their proficiency in executing specific, well-defined
sub-components of the research process, such as running documented code scripts or performing
standard data analyses. While these benchmarks provide valuable insights into specific ML tasks,
they generally fail to capture the complexity of realistic end-to-end AI research workflows, nor do
they typically offer a methodology for constructing such comprehensive benchmark tasks at scale.
3
THE EXP-BENCH BENCHMARK AND DATASET
EXP-Bench is built to evaluate the AI agent’s ability to address AI research tasks by conducting
end-to-end experimentation. Each research task is grounded on an influential AI research paper and
its corresponding codebase. This coupling captures the full scientific workflows, linking concrete
high-level ideas to executable implementations (§3.1). We achieve scalable construction of these high-
fidelity tasks through a semi-automated curation pipeline, which integrates multi-modal extraction
with lightweight human verification (§3.2). This design also opens the door to large-scale data
generation for training agents capable of automating core aspects of AI research.
3.1
EXP-BENCH DATASET SPECIFICATION
Our dataset is a collection of AI research tasks, each structured to emulate a complete experimental
process designed to address a specific AI research question from a published paper. As shown in
Fig. 2, each task entry in the dataset contains a problem statement for the agent, and the corresponding
ground-truth solution derived from the original research artifacts.
Problem Statement (Agent Input).
Each task instance within EXP-Bench provides the agent with:
(1) Research Question: A specific goal derived from the source paper’s experiments. (2) High-Level
Method: A description guiding the required experimental approach; and (3) Code Repository: Access
to the relevant code, potentially with specific components/scripts masked or requiring modification.
3


Deep Learning
Reinforcement Learning
Applications
Optimization
Computer Vision
Generative Models
Multimodal Models
Social Aspects
Language
Time Series
Trustworthy Machine Learning
Causality
Computational Biology
Theory
Probabilistic Methods
Physical Models
Datasets and Benchmarks
0
25
50
75
100
125
Task Count
ICLR # Papers
ICLR # Tasks
NeurIPS # Papers
NeurIPS # Tasks
20
200
250
Counts
Figure 3: EXP-Bench’s dataset comprises tasks from a diverse set of ML research categories.
Expected Outcome (Ground Truth).
Each task instance also includes a ground-truth experimental
solution curated from the source paper and codebase. This solution, used to evaluate agent outputs,
comprises: (1) an experimental design specifying key variables, constants, and procedures; (2) the
necessary code modifications, assessed via a git diff against the provided repository; and (3) a
final conclusion that directly answers the research question based on experimental results.
Benchmark Overview and Statistics.
EXP-Bench currently includes 461 research tasks drawn
from 51 influential papers, as detailed in App. B. As shown in Fig. 3, these tasks span diverse AI
subfields (including Computer Vision, NLP, and Reinforcement Learning) and are sourced from
top-tier venues, namely NeurIPS 2024 (53%) and ICLR 2024 (47%). This breadth ensures coverage
of diverse experimental paradigms, coding practices, and research challenges prevalent in the AI
field. Moreover, each task is broken down into fine-grained, individually gradable subtasks spanning
all three ground-truth components—design, implementation, and conclusion—resulting in a total of
12,737 subtasks. Together, these features make EXP-Bench a comprehensive testbed for assessing
the capabilities of AI research agents.
3.2
EXP-BENCH SEMI-AUTOMATED DATASET CONSTRUCTION PIPELINE
Curating a high-fidelity benchmark for end-to-end AI experimentation is challenging due to the
fragmented and domain-specific nature of real-world research artifacts (namely papers and their
associated codebases). Critical experimental details are often scattered, implicit, or embedded in
dense technical language, making manual extraction labor-intensive and difficult to scale. To address
this, we propose a semi-automated construction pipeline that systematically structures these artifacts
into benchmark tasks with lightweight human oversight. The pipeline comprises three stages (Fig. 4):
Stage 1: Source Selection and Filtering.
The process begins by identifying candidate research
artifacts that form the basis of high-quality experimental tasks. We target influential papers from
top-tier AI conferences (e.g., NeurIPS, ICLR) that are accompanied by publicly available code
repositories. Initial filtering criteria are applied to prioritize impactful and potentially reproducible
research, considering factors such as citation counts, and code repository activity (e.g., GitHub stars,
forks). This selection phase aims to establish a strong foundation by focusing on artifacts that, despite
potential imperfections, represent significant and verifiable research contributions.
Stage 2: Experiment Procedure Extraction.
Research papers rarely present experiments as
complete procedures; key steps are often implicit or scattered. To enable structured agent evaluation,
we decompose each task into explicit sub-steps. This transforms high-level research goals into
concrete workflows (e.g., multi-step experiment design and environment setup), making them suitable
for both execution and fine-grained evaluation. This stage extracts the complete research task by
combining the research plan (from the paper) with its corresponding experiment implementation
(from the codebase). Further implementation details can be found in App. G.
4


Figure 4: EXP-Bench semi-automated dataset construction pipeline.
Stage 2.1: Extract Research Task. We begin by extracting the core research task—consisting of the
research question, high-level methodology, and expected outcome—directly from the paper. This
process is designed to handle the fact that key information in academic papers is often distributed
across sections and conveyed implicitly. First, we index the PDF using OCR. For structured elements
(tables, figures, headers), we use OCR to locate the visual regions and a multimodal LLM to interpret
them (including cross-page elements) into structured text. This ensures downstream access to high-
signal artifacts that may anchor the task definition. Next, we conduct a multi-pass extraction. In the
first pass, we perform retrieval-augmented querying to identify broad, high-level research takeaways.
These overarching questions are often not confined to a single paragraph and require stitching together
dispersed cues. In the second pass, for each high-level takeaway, we apply semantic extraction
at the subsection level, focusing on evaluation sections. We classify each subsection as either
implementation context or a candidate research question. Contextual passages are stored and reused
across subsequent prompts. This focused prompting—processing each subsection independently
while conditioning on accumulated context and extracted tables/figures—helps the LLM generate
more accurate and detailed task formulations. Finally, we refine each task through targeted re-
querying of the full paper (including appendices) to recover any additional setup constraints or
methodological details that were missed earlier. This step acknowledges that relevant setup details
may be located far from the task description and ensures completeness for the extracted task.
Stage 2.2: Extract Experiment Implementation. Each extracted task is then passed to an im-
plementation extraction AI agent (operating in a tool-augmented environment, with PDF reading,
terminal access, and web browsing) to identify the specific implementation (chain of scripts) needed
to address the research task. Our setting provides the agent with both a complete codebase and the
extracted task, containing the research question, methodology, and expected outcome. This effectively
reduces the problem to a goal-conditioned search over the codebase, where the agent’s task is to
localise the implementation that realises the specified methodology and expected outcome. To do
this, the agent explores the repository in an open-ended fashion, e.g., consulting documentation,
and auxiliary scripts, to uncover domain-specific requirements (e.g., pretrained checkpoints). The
extracted experiment execution ground truth will be fully based on existing scripts. The agent outputs
(1) a list of required scripts and (2) high-level usage instructions describing how to run them to
complete the task. Once a candidate implementation is produced, it is executed in Stage 3. If the run
fails, the pipeline iterates, allowing the agent to refine or replace the implementation until a working
solution is found. The final validated script chain is then parsed by the agent via AST (Abstract
Syntax Tree) tracing to extract a step-by-step list of implementation requirements in natural language,
which becomes the ground truth for evaluating implementation correctness. Finally, we incorporate
additional contextual details (e.g., hyperparameters) sourced from the raw code (e.g., configuration
files) or repository documents (e.g., README.md) to enhance the final task specification.
Stage 3: Verification and Refinement.
All tasks are validated and finalized in this stage. For
each task, we first apply an LLM-based monitor (§4.1) to detect disallowed behaviours such as
mocking or fabricating results. We then re-execute the agent’s reproduction script in a clean Docker
5


Table 1: Average benchmark scores for various models when tested against various evaluation metrics.
Popular Agents and LLMs perform poorly on EXP-Bench, showcasing its difficulty.
Agent
Model
D
I
E
I·E
C
All✓
All·E✓
#E
OpenHands
o3-mini
18.4
20.3
15.0
2.9
21.0
1.4
0.5
420
OpenHands
Claude-3.7 Sonnet
16.0
35.0
33.2
14.9
13.4
0.7
0.4
235
OpenHands
Amazon Nova Pro
18.2
19.5
26.8
0.0
15.7
0.0
0.0
56
OpenHands
Claude-3.5 Haiku
20.6
26.2
9.3
1.3
13.8
0.0
0.0
237
OpenHands
DeepSeek R1
6.8
10.0
0.7
0.0
2.4
0.0
0.0
140
IterativeAgent
Claude-3.5 Haiku
6.4
20.6
25.2
5.4
2.2
0.0
0.0
111
IterativeAgent
Amazon Nova Pro
0.1
10.0
18.1
0.0
0.3
0.0
0.0
215
container, guaranteeing a from-scratch run of all dependencies and steps. These re-executed outputs
are compared against the expected conclusion from the original paper using an LLM. If validation
fails, the task is returned to the previous stage for refinement. In cases where no usable script is found,
the agent may produce an implementation, which is subjected to the same checks. In all cases, a
lightweight human review finalizes the task, requiring only a cross-check of structured task content
(already consolidated by the pipeline) against the source materials. This significantly reduces human
burden compared to manual curation from scratch. We iteratively refined the construction pipeline
through a manual trial-and-error process (App. §G). Following validation, each complete task is
added to the dataset along with a list of masked files (e.g., README.md, relevant scripts) to ensure
agents cannot directly access answers. In our benchmark implementation, repositories are cloned
afresh per agent, and masking is applied using scripted git operations, including recursive traversal of
submodules. Masking ensures agents must reason over the task input, rather than rely on shortcut
access to original solutions.
4
EVALUATION
4.1
EVALUATING LLM-BASED AGENTS PERFORMANCE: SETUP & MAIN RESULTS
Setup. We evaluate a range of agents and LLMs used in related benchmarks (Chen et al., 2021) against
EXP-Bench. In terms of agents, we made use of OpenHands (a top-performing code generation
agent) and IterativeAgent (as configured in Starace et al. (2025)) to reduce the likelihood of early
task stopping), henceforth known as OH and IA, respectively. In terms of LLMs, these include the
top-ranked Claude-Sonnet 3.7, Haiku 3.5, Deepseek-R1 (Wei et al., 2023) models, and OpenAI
o3-mini variants. Each agent is run in an Ubuntu 24.04 Docker container, and given access to 4 ×
Nvidia A40 GPU, and a clean working directory containing the masked GitHub repo of the paper
(i.e., task-specific scripts removed), instructions, and relevant context (e.g., API credentials).
Evaluation Judge Implementation Details. Our evaluation framework consists of two main
components used to assess agent performance across various metrics (refer to later sections, e.g.,
Table 1). The first component is an LLM-based judge (using o3-mini), following prior work on
LLM-as-a-judge (Zheng et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2024b; vic; Starace et al., 2025). This judge operates
through multiple steps: The process begins with an integrity check performed by a Monitor, which
analyzes agent logs to detect disallowed behaviors (denoted as metric M; see Fig. 6b). Specifically,
the monitor checks whether the agent: (1) accessed the research paper directly (e.g., opened the
PDF), (2) performed Git operations such as checking out commits or switching branches, or (3) used
fake, hardcoded, or placeholder data rather than generating results through real experimentation. If
violations are found, the monitor also identifies possible causes (e.g., ethical refusals, runtime errors)
using log information. Once integrity is established, the agent’s experimental design, implementation,
and conclusion are evaluated for conceptual soundness, completeness (e.g., inclusion of all required
steps), and alignment with ground truth. These assessments yield scores for: D (design correctness, i.e.,
proportion of design criteria met), I (implementation correctness, i.e., proportion of implementation
components satisfied), and C (conclusion correctness). The second component of our evaluation judge
is a Code Execution Validator, which runs the agent-generated code modifications in a clean and
equivalent containerized environment. This step verifies whether the code is executable and produces
expected outputs. This executability metric is denoted as E. Implementation details including the
system prompt are in App. I.
6


Main Results. Table 1 presents average accuracy scores across all 461 tasks. I·E indicates
whether an implementation is both appropriate for the experimental task and executable—a more
comprehensive check of implementation quality. All✓denotes tasks that are fully correct in terms
of D, I, and C, while All·E✓adds the executability requirement. #E represents the number of tasks
per model that were execution-checked. Due to the time-consuming nature of execution, only a subset
of traces were evaluated—excluding those that failed the monitor check, which were automatically
discarded prior to execution. Our top-ranked agents are OH+o3-mini, OH+3.7 Sonnet, and OH+Nova
Pro, ranked via All·E✓, with C used as a tiebreaker. The worst-performing model was IA+Nova
Pro. Extended results by paper category are shown in Table 3, with full details in App. E. Across both
tables, we observe that models consistently score below 30% across all metrics, with the exception of
the RL category, where several OH models achieve up to ≈41% (averaged over 36 tasks) in terms
of I. Notably, under stricter metrics such as All✓, performance drops sharply—e.g., OH+o3-mini
scores only 1.4%. This underscores the value of including partial metrics that assess individual
aspects, allowing credit for partially correct answers and supporting a more nuanced evaluation.
4.2
DETAILED ANALYSIS
Cost-Time Analysis. Fig. 6a shows the average cost (in USD) and time (in minutes) per task across
different agent configurations. Cost reflects only the token usage of the backbone LLM (input/output),
excluding agent internal LLM-API usage or compute consumption. The number in parentheses
next to each legend entry indicates the model’s performance rank, based on average correctness.
Each agent was allowed a maximum of 40 minutes per task, though this limit can be easily adjusted.
Notably, IA models often consumed the full allotted time, rarely stopping early. In contrast, early
stopping was common with OH models. For example, the relative time difference between Nova and
Haiku is larger under OH than IA, reflecting differing usage patterns. These trends are consistent with
our earlier observations: OH models often produced plausible responses without actually running the
experiment, leading to high partial scores (e.g., design, implementation), while IA models tended to
run longer but less effectively. Interestingly, we found little correlation between runtime/cost and
overall performance. OH+o3-mini (rank 1) achieves the best trade-off with low cost and moderate
time. OH+3.7 Sonnet (rank 2) performs well but is the slowest and most expensive. The full cost–time
distribution is provided in App. J.2.
Conjunctive Evaluation Metrics Substantially Lower Agent Scores. We analyze only the subset
of tasks for which execution was run, to visualize how progressively applying stricter evaluation
criteria impacts agent scores. As shown in Fig. 6b (with full results in App. J.1), applying only the
initial monitoring check (M) yields an average score of 20.6%. Adding design (D) and conclusion (C)
correctness criteria reduces the score sharply to 3.7%. Incorporating implementation correctness (I)
further lowers the score to 0.4%, and including execution verification (E) results in a final accuracy
of just 0.2%. These findings highlight how conjunctive evaluation surfaces brittleness in end-to-end
experimental correctness.
C
C·D
I
E
I·E
Judge Metric
0
10
20
30
40
Average Score (%)
Figure 5: Stability Analysis.
Metric Stability Analysis. As shown in Fig. 5, certain
individual metrics such as C and E exhibit high variance.
This variance arises for different reasons: for C, agents
can produce plausible but unfounded conclusions without
a valid experimental foundation; for E, even incorrect or
mock implementations may successfully execute, introduc-
ing overestimation bias. To mitigate such inconsistencies,
we adopt compositional scoring via conjunctive metrics
such as C·D and I·E, which combine correctness across
multiple dimensions. These conjunctive forms substan-
tially reduce score variability, producing more reliable
signals of agent performance. For example, C·D filters
out conclusions not grounded in valid design plans, and
I·E discounts executions that do not fulfill setup require-
ments. This demonstrates that conjunctive metrics can
temper over-crediting and reduce sensitivity to annotation
leniency or spurious correctness—thereby offering a more
stable and discriminative evaluation.
7


15
20
25
30
35
Average Time (minutes)
0
2
4
6
8
10
Average Cost ($)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
OH + o3-mini
OH + 3.7 Sonnet
OH + Nova Pro
OH + 3.5 Haiku
OH + DeepSeek R1
IA + Nova Pro
IA + 3.5 Haiku
(a) Cost–time trade-offs across agents.
M
M·C·D
M·C·D·I
M·C·D·I·E
Judge Metric
0
10
20
30
40
Average Score (%)
OpenHands + o3-mini
OpenHands + Claude-3.7 Sonnet
OpenHands + Amazon Nova Pro
OpenHands + Claude-3.5 Haiku
(b) Stricter metrics reveal lower true correctness.
Figure 6: Ablation of agent performance along cost–time and evaluation metrics.
Contamination. To probe potential leakage, we adopt a technique used by existing memorization
studies (Ramos et al., 2025; Liang et al., 2025), which found that if models still succeed despite
missing input context, it is evidence of memorized knowledge. Specifically, we experimented with
under-specified contexts by randomly omitting half of the setup method. Under these ablations,
models consistently failed (<1% I score). This sharp performance drop suggests the tasks cannot be
solved via recall alone. Moreover, memorization is unlikely in our benchmark, as it is constructed from
recent, niche research papers/codebases (a stance also adopted in contemporary benchmarks (Starace
et al., 2025; Zhao et al., 2025)). Furthermore, our tasks exhibit structural resistance to memorization:
they are drawn from fragmented sources spanning papers, code, and supplementary materials,
and require both iterative agent-led and manual reconstruction that is not easily recoverable from
pretraining data. Finally, our semi-automated dataset construction pipeline enables the continual
addition of tasks from newly released papers, further reducing the risk of contamination over time.
4.3
ANALYSIS ON PREVALENT AGENT FAILURE PATTERNS
Pattern Extraction Methodology. Our analysis followed a two-pass, open-ended process. During
evaluation, each metric score was accompanied by an error analysis, derived from implementation
logs (e.g., stderr) or comparisons against ground truth. In the first pass, we extracted high-level,
domain-specific insights from these earlier error analyses, across phases for all agent-task pairs. In
the second pass, we iteratively grouped these insights into distinct failure types, assigning each to an
existing category or creating a new one if needed. This process produced 3,238 raw insights, which
we distilled into 361 unique failure types. We present a representative and simplified subset of these
condensed errors in Table 2 (full details can be found in App. H).
Analysis. To better understand where agents fail, we analyzed error traces and categorized them
into representative failure types across four key phases of experimentation: implementation, execu-
tion, design, and conclusion. As shown in Table 2, the most prevalent issues emerged during the
implementation phase, with 39.71% of failures stemming from missing essential components. In
several cases, agents failed to include critical elements such as semantic retrieval strategies (e.g.,
UniXcoder-H2L and UniXcoder-L2H), validation functions for filtering questions (e.g., using GPT-
3.5), or robustness-enhancing techniques like Mixup, CutMix, and Label Smoothing—undermining
the experimental implementation’s validity. In the execution phase, failures were most commonly due
to environment or dependency misconfigurations (29.38%), such as missing critical environments
(e.g., STORM not registered in jaxmarl) or absent core libraries like PyTorch and Flax, which
led to model loading failures. Script-level issues (23.84%) included unrecognized model names (e.g.,
moganet_tiny not found in timm) and missing checkpoint files, causing runtime or I/O errors.
These examples highlight persistent reproducibility challenges even when a correct implementation
structure is in place. Design-related failures were also frequent, with 16.05% involving incomplete or
misclassified experimental variables, and 7.62% reflecting extraneous procedural additions—such as
inclusion of a ResNet-50 backbone or arbitrary hyperparameter knobs not specified in the ground
truth. These design errors suggest that agents often fail to distinguish between essential experi-
mental factors and implementation noise. Finally, conclusion-phase errors highlight limitations in
agents’ interpretive reasoning. The most common issue (26.18%) was missing or underdeveloped
8


Table 2: Agents fail in diverse ways across different phases of experimentation; this table presents a
simplified subset of common examples, measured across all agent and model evaluations.
Phase
Failure Type
Prevalence (%)
Design
Incomplete or Misclassified Design Variables
16.05
Design
Irrelevant Procedural Additions in Design
7.62
Implementation
Missing Essential implementation Components
39.71
Implementation
Incomplete Evaluation Metric Implementation
2.15
Implementation
Incomplete Data and Preprocessing Setup
1.83
Execution
Environment/Dependency Configuration Errors
29.38
Execution
Execution Script and File Errors
23.84
Execution
Missing Setup Script File
6.95
Execution
Tensor Operation Execution Error
3.22
Conclusion
Missing Conclusion Content
26.18
Conclusion
Incorrect Conclusion Interpretation
19.66
Conclusion
Extraneous Details in Conclusion
7.77
Conclusion
Incorrect Numeric Conclusion
3.21
Table 3: Average benchmark scores of various models and agents across select task categories; see
App. E for complete list. Evaluation performed against EXP-Bench.
Category
Agent
Model
D
I
E
I·E
C
All✓
All✓·E
Applications
OH
Nova Pro
19.2
23.9
19.0
0.0
13.9
0.0
0.0
Applications
OH
o3-mini
9.0
8.0
0.0
0.0
8.3
0.0
0.0
Applications
OH
3.5 Haiku
19.2
24.5
8.3
5.6
8.3
0.0
0.0
Applications
OH
3.7 Sonnet
9.0
26.8
30.8
7.7
8.3
2.8
0.0
Applications
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
9.8
5.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
RL
OH
3.7 Sonnet
18.3
48.2
27.3
21.2
17.6
2.0
3.0
RL
OH
o3-mini
23.5
34.8
15.7
2.0
27.5
3.9
0.0
RL
OH
3.5 Haiku
27.7
41.4
11.5
0.0
17.6
0.0
0.0
RL
IA
3.5 Haiku
3.3
27.5
17.4
0.0
2.4
0.0
0.0
RL
OH
DeepSeek R1
5.0
10.3
0.0
0.0
2.0
0.0
0.0
conclusions—for instance, omitting detailed comparisons between PPO and Q-Learning on train-
ing time and normalized scores, or neglecting specific numerical gains (e.g., 1.25% improvements
across ARC-Challenge and OpenBookQA). Another frequent error (19.66%) was incorrect in-
terpretation, such as claiming Hadamard-enhanced INT4 inference improves performance without
substantiating comparisons to baseline INT4. Together, these findings emphasize the importance of
phase-specific evaluation to uncover deeper breakdowns in experimental reasoning.
5
DISCUSSION
Limitations. EXP-Bench primarily focuses on the experimentation procedure, from designing
experiments for a given research question to deriving conclusions. The broader AI research lifecycle
encompasses other critical stages such as identifying gaps through literature review, the initial
unstructured ideation of research questions, and navigating the complex, iterative, and unpredictable
path of real-world scientific discovery, which are not yet captured by the current task structures. In
particular, EXP-Bench does not evaluate open-ended scientific creativity or alternative experimental
designs; instead, it targets faithful execution of the specific, procedures extracted from the source
materials.
Future directions. Future work will focus on enhancing AI agents’ ability to automate research
experimentation using supervision from EXP-Bench’s dataset. One promising direction is to apply
reinforcement learning with verifiable rewards, enabling agents to autonomously navigate the research
lifecycle and accelerate scientific discovery.
9


6
CONCLUSION
We introduced EXP-Bench, a novel benchmark designed to rigorously evaluate and guide the
development of AI agents in conducting end-to-end AI research experimentation. By sourcing
tasks from influential peer-reviewed publications and their accompanying codebases, and utilizing a
semi-automated curation pipeline, EXP-Bench presents agents with realistic, fine-grained challenges
in end-to-end AI research workflow including experimental design, implementation, execution, and
conclusion derivation. Our initial evaluations with leading agents reveal significant bottlenecks
in conceptualizing complex experiments and ensuring robust code implementation and execution.
EXP-Bench therefore serves not only as a comprehensive evaluation tool but also as a valuable dataset
to guide future AI agents to act step by step, ultimately accelerating AI research.
7
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We thank the anonymous reviewers for their insightful feedback. This work is partially supported by
a VMware Early Career Faculty Grant, a Cisco grant, and NSF grants CNS-1942219, CNS-2106751,
CNS-2107147, and CNS-2214272.
8
REPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT
All
code
and
data
supporting
our
work
are
available
at
https://github.com/
Just-Curieous/Curie/tree/main/benchmark/exp_bench. Details of the research
papers used in constructing our dataset are included in App. B. The benchmark curation pipeline is
described in §3 of the main paper and further elaborated in App. G. The evaluation judge pipeline and
prompts are provided in §4.1 and App. I, respectively. Our agent failure patterns extraction pipeline
is described in §4.3. Finally, additional evaluation results and analyses are provided in the other
sections of the Appendix. Together, these resources are intended to ensure the reproducibility of our
dataset, benchmark, and experimental findings.
REFERENCES
Vicuna: An Open-Source Chatbot Impressing GPT-4 with 90%* ChatGPT Quality. https://
lmsys.org/blog/2023-03-30-vicuna/.
Ferran Alet, Javier Lopez-Contreras, James Koppel, Maxwell Nye, Armando Solar-Lezama, Tomas
Lozano-Perez, Leslie Kaelbling, and Joshua Tenenbaum. A large-scale benchmark for few-shot
program induction and synthesis. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 175–186.
PMLR, 2021.
Saleh Ashkboos, Amirkeivan Mohtashami, Maximilian L. Croci, Bo Li, Pashmina Cameron, Martin
Jaggi, Dan Alistarh, Torsten Hoefler, and James Hensman. Quarot: Outlier-free 4-bit inference in
rotated llms, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00456.
Jinheon Baek, Sujay Kumar Jauhar, Silviu Cucerzan, and Sung Ju Hwang. Researchagent: Iterative
research idea generation over scientific literature with large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.07738, 2024.
Yejin Bang, Samuel Cahyawijaya, Nayeon Lee, Wenliang Dai, Dan Su, Bryan Wilie, Holy Lovenia,
Ziwei Ji, Tiezheng Yu, Willy Chung, Quyet V. Do, Yan Xu, and Pascale Fung. A multitask,
multilingual, multimodal evaluation of chatgpt on reasoning, hallucination, and interactivity, 2023.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.04023.
Lukas Berglund, Meg Tong, Max Kaufmann, Mikita Balesni, Asa Cooper Stickland, Tomasz Korbak,
and Owain Evans. The reversal curse: Llms trained on ""a is b"" fail to learn ""b is a"", 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.12288.
Matteo Bettini, Amanda Prorok, and Vincent Moens. Benchmarl: Benchmarking multi-agent
reinforcement learning, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01472.
10


Daniil A Boiko, Robert MacKnight, Ben Kline, and Gabe Gomes. Autonomous chemical research
with large language models. Nature, 624(7992):570–578, 2023.
Léo Boisvert, Megh Thakkar, Maxime Gasse, Massimo Caccia, Thibault Le Sellier De Chezelles,
Quentin Cappart, Nicolas Chapados, Alexandre Lacoste, and Alexandre Drouin. Workarena++:
Towards compositional planning and reasoning-based common knowledge work tasks, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.05291.
Albert Bou, Matteo Bettini, Sebastian Dittert, Vikash Kumar, Shagun Sodhani, Xiaomeng Yang,
Gianni De Fabritiis, and Vincent Moens. Torchrl: A data-driven decision-making library for
pytorch, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.00577.
Jarosław Błasiok and Preetum Nakkiran. Smooth ece: Principled reliability diagrams via kernel
smoothing, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.12236.
Jun Shern Chan, Neil Chowdhury, Oliver Jaffe, James Aung, Dane Sherburn, Evan Mays, Giulio
Starace, Kevin Liu, Leon Maksin, Tejal Patwardhan, Lilian Weng, and Aleksander M ˛adry. Mle-
bench: Evaluating machine learning agents on machine learning engineering, 2024.
Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared
Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, et al. Evaluating large
language models trained on code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.03374, 2021.
Ziru Chen, Shijie Chen, Yuting Ning, Qianheng Zhang, Boshi Wang, Botao Yu, Yifei Li, Zeyi Liao,
Chen Wei, Zitong Lu, et al. Scienceagentbench: Toward rigorous assessment of language agents
for data-driven scientific discovery. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05080, 2024.
Ching-An Cheng, Allen Nie, and Adith Swaminathan. Trace is the next autodiff: Generative
optimization with rich feedback, execution traces, and llms, 2024. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2406.16218.
Pengyu Cheng, Tianhao Hu, Han Xu, Zhisong Zhang, Zheng Yuan, Yong Dai, Lei Han, Nan Du,
and Xiaolong Li. Self-playing adversarial language game enhances llm reasoning, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.10642.
Alexis Chevalier, Jiayi Geng, Alexander Wettig, Howard Chen, Sebastian Mizera, Toni Annala,
Max Jameson Aragon, Arturo Rodríguez Fanlo, Simon Frieder, Simon Machado, Akshara Prab-
hakar, Ellie Thieu, Jiachen T. Wang, Zirui Wang, Xindi Wu, Mengzhou Xia, Wenhan Xia, Jiatong
Yu, Jun-Jie Zhu, Zhiyong Jason Ren, Sanjeev Arora, and Danqi Chen. Language models as science
tutors, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11111.
Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian, Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser,
Matthias Plappert, Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro Nakano, Christopher Hesse, and John
Schulman. Training verifiers to solve math word problems, 2021. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2110.14168.
The Multimodal Universe Collaboration, Jeroen Audenaert, Micah Bowles, Benjamin M. Boyd,
David Chemaly, Brian Cherinka, Ioana Ciuc˘a, Miles Cranmer, Aaron Do, Matthew Grayling,
Erin E. Hayes, Tom Hehir, Shirley Ho, Marc Huertas-Company, Kartheik G. Iyer, Maja Jablonska,
Francois Lanusse, Henry W. Leung, Kaisey Mandel, Juan Rafael Martínez-Galarza, Peter Melchior,
Lucas Meyer, Liam H. Parker, Helen Qu, Jeff Shen, Michael J. Smith, Connor Stone, Mike
Walmsley, and John F. Wu. The multimodal universe: Enabling large-scale machine learning with
100tb of astronomical scientific data, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02527.
Josef Dai, Xuehai Pan, Ruiyang Sun, Jiaming Ji, Xinbo Xu, Mickel Liu, Yizhou Wang, and Yaodong
Yang. Safe rlhf: Safe reinforcement learning from human feedback, 2023. URL https://
arxiv.org/abs/2310.12773.
Tao Dai, Beiliang Wu, Peiyuan Liu, Naiqi Li, Jigang Bao, Yong Jiang, and Shu-Tao Xia. Periodicity
decoupling framework for long-term series forecasting. In The Twelfth International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2024.
Yuxin Du, Fan Bai, Tiejun Huang, and Bo Zhao. Segvol: Universal and interactive volumetric
medical image segmentation, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.13385.
11


Elicit. Elicit: Analyze research papers at superhuman speed, 2025. URL https://elicit.com/
?redirected=true. Accessed: 2025-05-12.
Mohamed Elrefaie, Florin Morar, Angela Dai, and Faez Ahmed. Drivaernet++: A large-scale multi-
modal car dataset with computational fluid dynamics simulations and deep learning benchmarks,
2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09624.
Yin Fang, Ningyu Zhang, Zhuo Chen, Lingbing Guo, Xiaohui Fan, and Huajun Chen. Domain-
agnostic molecular generation with chemical feedback, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2301.11259.
Simon Frieder, Luca Pinchetti, , Ryan-Rhys Griffiths, Tommaso Salvatori, Thomas Lukasiewicz,
Philipp Petersen, and Julius Berner.
Mathematical capabilities of chatgpt.
In A. Oh,
T. Naumann, A. Globerson, K. Saenko, M. Hardt, and S. Levine (eds.), Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, volume 36, pp. 27699–27744. Curran Associates, Inc., 2023.
URL
https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/file/
58168e8a92994655d6da3939e7cc0918-Paper-Datasets_and_Benchmarks.
pdf.
Kanishk Gandhi, Michael Y. Li, Lyle Goodyear, Louise Li, Aditi Bhaskar, Mohammed Zaman, and
Noah D. Goodman. Boxinggym: Benchmarking progress in automated experimental design and
model discovery, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01540.
Gaël Gendron, Qiming Bao, Michael Witbrock, and Gillian Dobbie. Large language models are not
strong abstract reasoners. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.19555, 2023.
Alireza Ghafarollahi and Markus J. Buehler. Sciagents: Automating scientific discovery through multi-
agent intelligent graph reasoning, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.05556.
Antoine Grosnit, Alexandre Maraval, James Doran, Giuseppe Paolo, Albert Thomas, Refinath Shahul
Hameed Nabeezath Beevi, Jonas Gonzalez, Khyati Khandelwal, Ignacio Iacobacci, Abdelhakim
Benechehab, et al. Large language models orchestrating structured reasoning achieve kaggle
grandmaster level. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.03562, 2024.
Ken Gu, Ruoxi Shang, Ruien Jiang, Keying Kuang, Richard-John Lin, Donghe Lyu, Yue Mao, Youran
Pan, Teng Wu, Jiaqian Yu, et al. Blade: Benchmarking language model agents for data-driven
science. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.09667, 2024.
Siyuan Guo, Cheng Deng, Ying Wen, Hechang Chen, Yi Chang, and Jun Wang. Ds-agent: Automated
data science by empowering large language models with case-based reasoning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.17453, 2024a.
Yuwei Guo, Ceyuan Yang, Anyi Rao, Zhengyang Liang, Yaohui Wang, Yu Qiao, Maneesh Agrawala,
Dahua Lin, and Bo Dai. Animatediff: Animate your personalized text-to-image diffusion models
without specific tuning, 2024b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04725.
Simon Jerome Han, Keith J Ransom, Andrew Perfors, and Charles Kemp. Inductive reasoning in
humans and large language models. Cognitive Systems Research, 83:101155, 2024.
Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Steven Basart, Andy Zou, Mantas Mazeika, Dawn Song, and Jacob
Steinhardt. Measuring massive multitask language understanding, 2021a. URL https://
arxiv.org/abs/2009.03300.
Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Saurav Kadavath, Akul Arora, Steven Basart, Eric Tang, Dawn Song,
and Jacob Steinhardt. Measuring mathematical problem solving with the math dataset, 2021b.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.03874.
Xueyu Hu, Ziyu Zhao, Shuang Wei, Ziwei Chai, Qianli Ma, Guoyin Wang, Xuwu Wang, Jing Su,
Jingjing Xu, Ming Zhu, et al. Infiagent-dabench: Evaluating agents on data analysis tasks. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2401.05507, 2024.
12


Jen-tse Huang, Wenxuan Wang, Eric John Li, Man Ho Lam, Shujie Ren, Youliang Yuan, Wenxiang
Jiao, Zhaopeng Tu, and Michael Lyu. On the humanity of conversational ai: Evaluating the psycho-
logical portrayal of llms. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations,
2023a.
Qian Huang, Jian Vora, Percy Liang, and Jure Leskovec. Mlagentbench: Evaluating language agents
on machine learning experimentation, 2023b.
Qian Huang, Jian Vora, Percy Liang, and Jure Leskovec. Mlagentbench: Evaluating language
agents on machine learning experimentation, 2024a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.
03302.
Zilong Huang, Qinghao Ye, Bingyi Kang, Jiashi Feng, and Haoqi Fan. Classification done right for
vision-language pre-training, 2024b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03313.
Tal Ifargan, Lukas Hafner, Maor Kern, Ori Alcalay, and Roy Kishony. Autonomous llm-driven
research—from data to human-verifiable research papers. NEJM AI, 2(1):AIoa2400555, 2025.
Guillaume Jaume, Paul Doucet, Andrew H. Song, Ming Y. Lu, Cristina Almagro-Pérez, Sophia J.
Wagner, Anurag J. Vaidya, Richard J. Chen, Drew F. K. Williamson, Ahrong Kim, and Faisal
Mahmood. Hest-1k: A dataset for spatial transcriptomics and histology image analysis, 2024.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.16192.
Bowen Jing, Hannes Stärk, Tommi Jaakkola, and Bonnie Berger. Generative modeling of molecular
dynamics trajectories, 2024a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.17808.
Liqiang Jing, Zhehui Huang, Xiaoyang Wang, Wenlin Yao, Wenhao Yu, Kaixin Ma, Hongming
Zhang, Xinya Du, and Dong Yu. Dsbench: How far are data science agents from becoming data
science experts?, 2024b.
John Jumper, Richard Evans, Alexander Pritzel, Tim Green, Michael Figurnov, Olaf Ronneberger,
Kathryn Tunyasuvunakool, Russ Bates, Augustin Žídek, Anna Potapenko, et al. Highly accurate
protein structure prediction with alphafold. nature, 596(7873):583–589, 2021.
Patrick Tser Jern Kon, Jiachen Liu, Qiuyi Ding, Yiming Qiu, Zhenning Yang, Yibo Huang, Jayanth
Srinivasa, Myungjin Lee, Mosharaf Chowdhury, and Ang Chen. Curie: Toward rigorous and
automated scientific experimentation with ai agents, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2502.16069.
Jakub Lála, Odhran O’Donoghue, Aleksandar Shtedritski, Sam Cox, Samuel G Rodriques, and
Andrew D White. Paperqa: Retrieval-augmented generative agent for scientific research. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2312.07559, 2023.
Jon M. Laurent, Joseph D. Janizek, Nitya Thakkar, Michael Ruzo, Michael S. Yao, Michael S. Levine,
Samuel G. Rodriques, and Andrew White. Lab-bench: Measuring capabilities of language models
for biology research, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10362.
Ruochen Li, Teerth Patel, Qingyun Wang, and Xinya Du. Mlr-copilot: Autonomous machine learning
research based on large language models agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.14033, 2024a.
Siyuan Li, Zedong Wang, Zicheng Liu, Cheng Tan, Haitao Lin, Di Wu, Zhiyuan Chen, Jiangbin
Zheng, and Stan Z. Li. Moganet: Multi-order gated aggregation network, 2024b. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2211.03295.
Xurui Li, Ziming Huang, Feng Xue, and Yu Zhou. Musc: Zero-shot industrial anomaly classification
and segmentation with mutual scoring of the unlabeled images, 2024c. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2401.16753.
Yujia Li, David Choi, Junyoung Chung, Nate Kushman, Julian Schrittwieser, Rémi Leblond, Tom
Eccles, James Keeling, Felix Gimeno, Agustin Dal Lago, et al. Competition-level code generation
with alphacode. Science, 378(6624):1092–1097, 2022.
Shanchao Liang, Spandan Garg, and Roshanak Zilouchian Moghaddam. The swe-bench illusion:
When state-of-the-art llms remember instead of reason. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.12286, 2025.
13


Shengsheng Lin, Weiwei Lin, Xinyi Hu, Wentai Wu, Ruichao Mo, and Haocheng Zhong. Cyclenet:
Enhancing time series forecasting through modeling periodic patterns, 2024. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2409.18479.
Haochen Liu, Li Chen, Yu Qiao, Chen Lv, and Hongyang Li. Reasoning multi-agent behavioral
topology for interactive autonomous driving, 2024a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.
18031.
Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and Yong Jae Lee. Visual instruction tuning. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 36, 2024b.
Tianyang Liu, Canwen Xu, and Julian McAuley. Repobench: Benchmarking repository-level code
auto-completion systems, 2023a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03091.
Xi Liu, Chaoyi Zhou, and Siyu Huang. 3dgs-enhancer: Enhancing unbounded 3d gaussian splatting
with view-consistent 2d diffusion priors, 2024c. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.
16266.
Xiao Liu, Hao Yu, Hanchen Zhang, Yifan Xu, Xuanyu Lei, Hanyu Lai, Yu Gu, Hangliang Ding,
Kaiwen Men, Kejuan Yang, Shudan Zhang, Xiang Deng, Aohan Zeng, Zhengxiao Du, Chenhui
Zhang, Sheng Shen, Tianjun Zhang, Yu Su, Huan Sun, Minlie Huang, Yuxiao Dong, and Jie
Tang. Agentbench: Evaluating llms as agents, 2023b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2308.03688.
Renze Lou, Hanzi Xu, Sijia Wang, Jiangshu Du, Ryo Kamoi, Xiaoxin Lu, Jian Xie, Yuxuan Sun,
Yusen Zhang, Jihyun Janice Ahn, Hongchao Fang, Zhuoyang Zou, Wenchao Ma, Xi Li, Kai Zhang,
Congying Xia, Lifu Huang, and Wenpeng Yin. Aaar-1.0: Assessing ai’s potential to assist research,
2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22394.
Chris Lu, Cong Lu, Robert Tjarko Lange, Jakob Foerster, Jeff Clune, and David Ha. The ai scientist:
Towards fully automated open-ended scientific discovery. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.06292, 2024a.
Yifan Lu, Yue Hu, Yiqi Zhong, Dequan Wang, Yanfeng Wang, and Siheng Chen. An extensible
framework for open heterogeneous collaborative perception, 2024b. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2401.13964.
Qijun Luo, Hengxu Yu, and Xiao Li. Badam: A memory efficient full parameter optimization method
for large language models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.02827.
Bodhisattwa Prasad Majumder, Harshit Surana, Dhruv Agarwal, Bhavana Dalvi Mishra, Abhi-
jeetsingh Meena, Aryan Prakhar, Tirth Vora, Tushar Khot, Ashish Sabharwal, and Peter Clark.
Discoverybench: Towards data-driven discovery with large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.01725, 2024.
Suvir Mirchandani, Fei Xia, Pete Florence, Brian Ichter, Danny Driess, Montserrat Gonzalez Arenas,
Kanishka Rao, Dorsa Sadigh, and Andy Zeng. Large language models as general pattern machines.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.04721, 2023.
Ludovico Mitchener, Jon M Laurent, Benjamin Tenmann, Siddharth Narayanan, Geemi P Wellawatte,
Andrew White, Lorenzo Sani, and Samuel G Rodriques. Bixbench: a comprehensive benchmark
for llm-based agents in computational biology. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.00096, 2025.
Arseny Moskvichev, Victor Vikram Odouard, and Melanie Mitchell. The conceptarc benchmark:
Evaluating understanding and generalization in the arc domain. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.07141,
2023.
Siddharth Narayanan, James D Braza, Ryan-Rhys Griffiths, Manu Ponnapati, Albert Bou, Jon Laurent,
Ori Kabeli, Geemi Wellawatte, Sam Cox, Samuel G Rodriques, et al. Aviary: training language
agents on challenging scientific tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.21154, 2024.
Deepak Nathani, Lovish Madaan, Nicholas Roberts, Nikolay Bashlykov, Ajay Menon, Vincent
Moens, Amar Budhiraja, Despoina Magka, Vladislav Vorotilov, Gaurav Chaurasia, Dieuwke
Hupkes, Ricardo Silveira Cabral, Tatiana Shavrina, Jakob Foerster, Yoram Bachrach, William Yang
Wang, and Roberta Raileanu. Mlgym: A new framework and benchmark for advancing ai research
agents, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14499.
14


Ruben Ohana, Michael McCabe, Lucas Meyer, Rudy Morel, Fruzsina J. Agocs, Miguel Beneitez, Mar-
sha Berger, Blakesley Burkhart, Keaton Burns, Stuart B. Dalziel, Drummond B. Fielding, Daniel
Fortunato, Jared A. Goldberg, Keiya Hirashima, Yan-Fei Jiang, Rich R. Kerswell, Suryanarayana
Maddu, Jonah Miller, Payel Mukhopadhyay, Stefan S. Nixon, Jeff Shen, Romain Watteaux, Bruno
Régaldo-Saint Blancard, François Rozet, Liam H. Parker, Miles Cranmer, and Shirley Ho. The
well: a large-scale collection of diverse physics simulations for machine learning, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00568.
Penghui Qi, Xinyi Wan, Guangxing Huang, and Min Lin. Zero bubble (almost) pipeline parallelism.
In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024a.
Siyuan Qi, Shuo Chen, Yexin Li, Xiangyu Kong, Junqi Wang, Bangcheng Yang, Pring Wong, Yifan
Zhong, Xiaoyuan Zhang, Zhaowei Zhang, Nian Liu, Wei Wang, Yaodong Yang, and Song-Chun
Zhu. Civrealm: A learning and reasoning odyssey in civilization for decision-making agents,
2024b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10568.
Daniel Ramos, Claudia Mamede, Kush Jain, Paulo Canelas, Catarina Gamboa, and Claire Le Goues.
Are large language models memorizing bug benchmarks?
In 2025 IEEE/ACM International
Workshop on Large Language Models for Code (LLM4Code), pp. 1–8. IEEE, 2025.
Jie Ren, Xidong Feng, Bo Liu, Xuehai Pan, Yao Fu, Luo Mai, and Yaodong Yang. Torchopt:
An efficient library for differentiable optimization, 2022. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2211.06934.
Alexander Rutherford, Benjamin Ellis, Matteo Gallici, Jonathan Cook, Andrei Lupu, Gardar In-
gvarsson, Timon Willi, Ravi Hammond, Akbir Khan, Christian Schroeder de Witt, Alexandra
Souly, Saptarashmi Bandyopadhyay, Mikayel Samvelyan, Minqi Jiang, Robert Tjarko Lange,
Shimon Whiteson, Bruno Lacerda, Nick Hawes, Tim Rocktaschel, Chris Lu, and Jakob Nico-
laus Foerster.
Jaxmarl: Multi-agent rl environments and algorithms in jax, 2024.
URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10090.
Samuel Schmidgall, Yusheng Su, Ze Wang, Ximeng Sun, Jialian Wu, Xiaodong Yu, Jiang Liu,
Zicheng Liu, and Emad Barsoum. Agent laboratory: Using llm agents as research assistants. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2501.04227, 2025.
Zachary S Siegel, Sayash Kapoor, Nitya Nagdir, Benedikt Stroebl, and Arvind Narayanan. Core-
bench: Fostering the credibility of published research through a computational reproducibility
agent benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.11363, 2024.
Giulio Starace, Oliver Jaffe, Dane Sherburn, James Aung, Jun Shern Chan, Leon Maksin, Rachel
Dias, Evan Mays, Benjamin Kinsella, Wyatt Thompson, et al. Paperbench: Evaluating ai’s ability
to replicate ai research. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.01848, 2025.
Liangtai Sun, Yang Han, Zihan Zhao, Da Ma, Zhennan Shen, Baocai Chen, Lu Chen, and
Kai Yu. Scieval: A multi-level large language model evaluation benchmark for scientific re-
search. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 38(17):19053–19061,
Mar. 2024a. doi: 10.1609/aaai.v38i17.29872. URL https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/
AAAI/article/view/29872.
Weiwei Sun, Lingyong Yan, Xinyu Ma, Shuaiqiang Wang, Pengjie Ren, Zhumin Chen, Dawei Yin,
and Zhaochun Ren. Is chatgpt good at search? investigating large language models as re-ranking
agents, 2024b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.09542.
Kyle Swanson, Wesley Wu, Nash L Bulaong, John E Pak, and James Zou. The virtual lab: Ai agents
design new sars-cov-2 nanobodies with experimental validation. bioRxiv, pp. 2024–11, 2024.
Jiaqi Tang, Hao Lu, Ruizheng Wu, Xiaogang Xu, Ke Ma, Cheng Fang, Bin Guo, Jiangbo Lu, Qifeng
Chen, and Ying-Cong Chen. Hawk: Learning to understand open-world video anomalies, 2024.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.16886.
Minyang Tian, Luyu Gao, Shizhuo Dylan Zhang, Xinan Chen, Cunwei Fan, Xuefei Guo, Roland
Haas, Pan Ji, Kittithat Krongchon, Yao Li, Shengyan Liu, Di Luo, Yutao Ma, Hao Tong, Kha Trinh,
Chenyu Tian, Zihan Wang, Bohao Wu, Yanyu Xiong, Shengzhu Yin, Minhui Zhu, Kilian Lieret,
15


Yanxin Lu, Genglin Liu, Yufeng Du, Tianhua Tao, Ofir Press, Jamie Callan, Eliu Huerta, and Hao
Peng. Scicode: A research coding benchmark curated by scientists, 2024.
Patara Trirat, Wonyong Jeong, and Sung Ju Hwang. Automl-agent: A multi-agent llm framework for
full-pipeline automl. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.02958, 2024.
Fanqi Wan, Xinting Huang, Deng Cai, Xiaojun Quan, Wei Bi, and Shuming Shi. Knowledge fusion
of large language models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10491.
Qingyun Wang, Doug Downey, Heng Ji, and Tom Hope. Scimon: Scientific inspiration machines opti-
mized for novelty. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 279–299, 2024a.
Weiyun Wang, Shuibo Zhang, Yiming Ren, Yuchen Duan, Tiantong Li, Shuo Liu, Mengkang Hu,
Zhe Chen, Kaipeng Zhang, Lewei Lu, Xizhou Zhu, Ping Luo, Yu Qiao, Jifeng Dai, Wenqi Shao,
and Wenhai Wang. Needle in a multimodal haystack, 2024b. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2406.07230.
Xiaoxuan Wang, Ziniu Hu, Pan Lu, Yanqiao Zhu, Jieyu Zhang, Satyen Subramaniam, Arjun R.
Loomba, Shichang Zhang, Yizhou Sun, and Wei Wang. Scibench: Evaluating college-level
scientific problem-solving abilities of large language models, 2024c. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2307.10635.
Yifan Wang, Di Huang, Weicai Ye, Guofeng Zhang, Wanli Ouyang, and Tong He. Neurodin:
A two-stage framework for high-fidelity neural surface reconstruction, 2024d. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2408.10178.
Taylor Webb, Keith J Holyoak, and Hongjing Lu. Emergent analogical reasoning in large language
models. Nature Human Behaviour, 7(9):1526–1541, 2023.
Yuxiang Wei, Zhe Wang, Jiawei Liu, Yifeng Ding, and Lingming Zhang. Magicoder: Source code is
all you need. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.02120, 2023.
Wei-Hung Weng et al. Towards an ai co-scientist, 2025.
Hjalmar Wijk, Tao Lin, Joel Becker, Sami Jawhar, Neev Parikh, Thomas Broadley, Lawrence Chan,
Michael Chen, Josh Clymer, Jai Dhyani, Elena Ericheva, Katharyn Garcia, Brian Goodrich, Nikola
Jurkovic, Megan Kinniment, Aron Lajko, Seraphina Nix, Lucas Sato, William Saunders, Maksym
Taran, Ben West, and Elizabeth Barnes. Re-bench: Evaluating frontier ai rd capabilities of language
model agents against human experts, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.15114.
Dongming Wu, Jiahao Chang, Fan Jia, Yingfei Liu, Tiancai Wang, and Jianbing Shen. Topomlp: A
simple yet strong pipeline for driving topology reasoning, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2310.06753.
Size Wu, Wenwei Zhang, Lumin Xu, Sheng Jin, Xiangtai Li, Wentao Liu, and Chen Change Loy.
Clipself: Vision transformer distills itself for open-vocabulary dense prediction, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.01403.
Chaojun Xiao, Pengle Zhang, Xu Han, Guangxuan Xiao, Yankai Lin, Zhengyan Zhang, Zhiyuan
Liu, and Maosong Sun. Infllm: Training-free long-context extrapolation for llms with an efficient
context memory, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04617.
Tinghao Xie, Xiangyu Qi, Ping He, Yiming Li, Jiachen T. Wang, and Prateek Mittal. Badexpert:
Extracting backdoor functionality for accurate backdoor input detection, 2023. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2308.12439.
Fangzhi Xu, Qika Lin, Jiawei Han, Tianzhe Zhao, Jun Liu, and Erik Cambria. Are large language
models really good logical reasoners? a comprehensive evaluation and beyond. IEEE Transactions
on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 2025.
Yudong Xu, Wenhao Li, Pashootan Vaezipoor, Scott Sanner, and Elias B Khalil. Llms and the abstrac-
tion and reasoning corpus: Successes, failures, and the importance of object-based representations.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.18354, 2023.
16


Zhao Xu, Fan Liu, and Hao Liu. Bag of tricks: Benchmarking of jailbreak attacks on llms, 2024.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09324.
Chengrun Yang, Xuezhi Wang, Yifeng Lu, Hanxiao Liu, Quoc V. Le, Denny Zhou, and Xinyun
Chen. Large language models as optimizers, 2024a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.
03409.
Ling Yang, Zhaochen Yu, Tianjun Zhang, Shiyi Cao, Minkai Xu, Wentao Zhang, Joseph E. Gonzalez,
and Bin Cui. Buffer of thoughts: Thought-augmented reasoning with large language models,
2024b. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04271.
Zonglin Yang, Li Dong, Xinya Du, Hao Cheng, Erik Cambria, Xiaodong Liu, Jianfeng Gao, and Furu
Wei. Language models as inductive reasoners. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.10923, 2022.
Zonglin Yang, Xinya Du, Junxian Li, Jie Zheng, Soujanya Poria, and Erik Cambria.
Large
language models for automated open-domain scientific hypotheses discovery. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.02726, 2023.
Zengwei Yao, Liyong Guo, Xiaoyu Yang, Wei Kang, Fangjun Kuang, Yifan Yang, Zengrui Jin, Long
Lin, and Daniel Povey. Zipformer: A faster and better encoder for automatic speech recognition,
2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.11230.
Jiakang Yuan, Xiangchao Yan, Botian Shi, Tao Chen, Wanli Ouyang, Bo Zhang, Lei Bai, Yu Qiao,
and Bowen Zhou. Dolphin: Closed-loop open-ended auto-research through thinking, practice, and
feedback, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03916.
Vinicius Zambaldi, David La, Alexander E Chu, Harshnira Patani, Amy E Danson, Tristan OC Kwan,
Thomas Frerix, Rosalia G Schneider, David Saxton, Ashok Thillaisundaram, et al. De novo design
of high-affinity protein binders with alphaproteo. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.08022, 2024.
Guowen Zhang, Lue Fan, Chenhang He, Zhen Lei, Zhaoxiang Zhang, and Lei Zhang. Voxel
mamba: Group-free state space models for point cloud based 3d object detection, 2024a. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10700.
Lei Zhang, Yuge Zhang, Kan Ren, Dongsheng Li, and Yuqing Yang. Mlcopilot: Unleashing
the power of large language models in solving machine learning tasks, 2024b. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2304.14979.
Shujian Zhang, Chengyue Gong, Lemeng Wu, Xingchao Liu, and Mingyuan Zhou. Automl-gpt: Au-
tomatic machine learning with gpt, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.02499.
Xuan Zhang, Jacob Helwig, Yuchao Lin, Yaochen Xie, Cong Fu, Stephan Wojtowytsch, and Shuiwang
Ji. Sinenet: Learning temporal dynamics in time-dependent partial differential equations, 2024c.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19507.
Bingchen Zhao, Despoina Magka, Minqi Jiang, Xian Li, Roberta Raileanu, Tatiana Shavrina, Jean-
Christophe Gagnon-Audet, Kelvin Niu, Shagun Sodhani, Michael Shvartsman, et al. The au-
tomated llm speedrunning benchmark: Reproducing nanogpt improvements. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2506.22419, 2025.
Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang,
Zi Lin, Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric Xing, et al. Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and
chatbot arena. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36, 2024.
Yujia Zheng, Biwei Huang, Wei Chen, Joseph Ramsey, Mingming Gong, Ruichu Cai, Shohei
Shimizu, Peter Spirtes, and Kun Zhang. Causal-learn: Causal discovery in python, 2023. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16405.
Qihang Zhou, Guansong Pang, Yu Tian, Shibo He, and Jiming Chen. Anomalyclip: Object-agnostic
prompt learning for zero-shot anomaly detection, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2310.18961.
17


Xingkui Zhu, Yiran Guan, Dingkang Liang, Yuchao Chen, Yuliang Liu, and Xiang Bai. Moe
jetpack: From dense checkpoints to adaptive mixture of experts for vision tasks, 2024a. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04801.
Zhaowei Zhu, Jialu Wang, Hao Cheng, and Yang Liu. Unmasking and improving data credibility:
A study with datasets for training harmless language models, 2024b. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2311.11202.
18


A
EXTENDED RELATED WORKS
LLMs for scientific discovery. Many methods have adopted LLMs to generate novel hypotheses
for common scientific discovery. For example, Baek et al. (Baek et al., 2024), Wang et al. (Wang
et al., 2024a), and Yang et al. (Yang et al., 2023) developed approaches for generating innovative
domain-specific research ideas. Going beyond domain-specific ideas, a line of work also focuses on
generate hypothesis with LLMs in the commonsense domains (Gendron et al., 2023; Moskvichev
et al., 2023; Yang et al., 2022; Weng et al., 2025; Mirchandani et al., 2023; Webb et al., 2023;
Alet et al., 2021; Xu et al., 2023; Han et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2025). Moreover, prior research on
automated scientific discovery proposes to combine hypothesis with LLM-assisted code generation
for end-to-end workflows (Li et al., 2024a; Ifargan et al., 2025; Majumder et al., 2024). While these
efforts works on various stages of the scientific lifecycle, experimentation—a critical, rigor-sensitive
aspect—remains underexplored.
Some existing research explores building an automated scientific discovery workflow with rigorous
validation using AI agents (Lu et al., 2024a; Weng et al., 2025; Jumper et al., 2021; Zambaldi et al.,
2024; Schmidgall et al., 2025; Boiko et al., 2023; Swanson et al., 2024; Yuan et al., 2025; Ghafarollahi
& Buehler, 2024), they often either have limited automated evaluation or rely on domain-specific
ad-hoc prompting optimizations to guide predefined workflows, struggling with the complexities of
rigorous end-to-end experimentation to automate AI research. Particularly, Lu et al. (Lu et al., 2024a)
introduced a fully automated system called "The AI Scientist" to conduct research by collaborating
with multiple LLM agents. These agents handle the full research process, from defining research
problems and reviewing related literature to synthesizing and executing experiments. However, their
solution has limited automated evaluation with a focus on commonsense domains. Gottweis et
al. (Weng et al., 2025) proposed an AI Co-scientist built on Gemini 2.0, aiming at building a helpful
AI collaborator for scientists. They focus on the scaling of the test-time compute paradigm to generate
high-quality hypotheses and research proposals. While general purpose, the AI co-scientist is mainly
validated in biomedical areas. Overall, these efforts often require experimental validation to follow
constrained, framework-specific formats, resulting in extra overhead and hindering their usability.
Benchmarks for domain-specific AI agent tasks. A wide range of benchmarks have been developed
to evaluate the capabilities of AI agents across diverse domains. Existing benchmarks predominantly
target problem-solving (Hendrycks et al., 2021b; Frieder et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2024c; Sun
et al., 2024a; Chevalier et al., 2024), logical reasoning (Cobbe et al., 2021; Hendrycks et al., 2021a;
Bang et al., 2023; Lála et al., 2023), machine learning training (Huang et al., 2024a; Zhang et al.,
2023; 2024b; Grosnit et al., 2024; Trirat et al., 2024; Mitchener et al., 2025; Narayanan et al.,
2024; Gu et al., 2024; Guo et al., 2024a), and knowledge retrieval and analysis (Sun et al., 2024b;
Hu et al., 2024). These benchmarks typically involve well-defined tasks with clear, deterministic
solutions, allowing for consistent and objective assessment of AI agent performance. By contrast, our
proposed EXP-Bench focuses on experimentation for automating AI research, which requires a more
rigorous and systematic approach beyond problem-solving. Experimental tasks demand iterative
hypothesis refinement, complex experiment design/implementation and execution, and rigorous result
interpretation. Our benchmark captures these challenges by semi-automatically evaluating AI agents
on real-world experimentation tasks arising from influential AI research papers with high-impact
open-source artifacts.
B
EXTENDED DETAILS OF THE EXP-BENCH DATASET
In this section, we provide a full list of the papers in the EXP-Bench dataset, including source
paper and, AI sub-domain.
The complete dataset can be found in our repository https:
//huggingface.co/datasets/Just-Curieous/EXP-Bench.
19


Table 4: ICLR 2024 Papers
ID
Title
Stars
Cit.#
Domain
Key Dist.
Resource
T1
T2
T3
19292
Zipformer: A faster
and better encoder for
automatic speech
recognition(Yao et al.,
2024)
1023
97
Deep Learning →
Attention
Mechanisms
propose
an archi-
tecture
memory needed:
32GB or more
recommended, GPU
type: NVIDIA
V100 or A100, GPU
amount: 2-8
1
3
3
19033
The Reversal Curse:
LLMs trained on “A is
B” fail to learn “B is
A” (Berglund et al.,
2024)
284
179
Deep Learning →
Large Language
Models
propose
an archi-
tecture
OpenAI API key
required; GPU: 1;
memory: ≥16GB
RAM
3
0
0
19044
AnimateDiff: Animate
Your Personalized
Text-to-Image
Diffusion Models
without Specific
Tuning (Guo et al.,
2024b)
11093
845
Deep Learning →
Generative Models
propose
an archi-
tecture
GPU type:
NVIDIA; GPU
amount: 1; GPU
memory: 13GB
1
4
4
17666
BaDExpert:
Extracting Backdoor
Functionality for
Accurate Backdoor
Input Detection(Xie
et al., 2023)
165
12
Deep Learning →
Robustness
Other
GPUs with CUDA
support (exact types
not specified), 4GB+
recommended
memory
6
0
0
19269
MuSc: Zero-Shot
Industrial Anomaly
Classification and
Segmentation with
Mutual Scoring of the
Unlabeled Images (Li
et al., 2024c)
358
26
Applications →
Computer Vision
propose a
training
algorithm
memory needed:
8GB; GPU type:
NVIDIA; GPU
amount: 1
8
0
0
19281
Domain-Agnostic
Molecular Generation
with Chemical
Feedback(Fang et al.,
2024)
149
16
Applications →
Chemistry
propose
an archi-
tecture
memory: 16GB
RAM; GPU type:
NVIDIA; GPU
amount: 1
4
3
3
18244
Periodicity
Decoupling
Framework for
Long-term Series
Forecasting(Dai et al.,
2024)
116
38
Deep Learning →
Time Series
propose
an archi-
tecture
GPU: at least one
(unspecified)
5
3
2
18318
AnomalyCLIP:
Object-agnostic
Prompt Learning for
Zero-shot Anomaly
Detection(Zhou et al.,
2025)
339
150
Deep Learning →
LLMs
propose
an archi-
tecture
memory: 24GB;
GPU: RTX 3090;
amount: 1
5
3
1
19388
Unmasking and
Improving Data
Credibility: A Study
with Datasets for
Training Harmless
Language Models(Zhu
et al., 2024b)
2706
20
Social Aspects →
Accountability
Other
standard resources +
1 GPU
recommended
3
3
6
17776
RepoBench:
Benchmarking
Repository-Level
Code
Auto-Completion
Systems(Liu et al.,
2023a)
145
139
Deep Learning →
LLMs
propose a
dataset/li-
brary
GPU: 1
6
3
1
18013
Knowledge Fusion of
Large Language
Models(Wan et al.,
2024)
535
101
Deep Learning →
LLMs
propose a
new ML
applica-
tion
GPUs: 1–4 A100;
RAM: 32GB+
0
4
6
18865
SineNet: Learning
Temporal Dynamics in
PDEs(Zhang et al.,
2024c)
572
14
Applications →
Physics
propose
an archi-
tecture
1 GPU (NVIDIA);
RAM: 16GB
5
0
0
20


ID
Title
Stars
Cit.#
Domain
Key Dist.
Resource
T1
T2
T3
18447
MogaNet: Multi-order
Gated Aggregation
Network(Li et al.,
2024b)
220
66
Deep Learning →
GNNs
propose
an archi-
tecture
RAM: ≥16GB;
GPUs: 1–4
V100/A100
5
5
6
19610
TopoMLP: A Simple
yet Strong Pipeline for
Driving Topology
Reasoning(Wu et al.,
2023)
179
31
Applications →
Robotics
propose
an archi-
tecture
GPUs: 1–2 RTX
2080+; RAM:
≥16GB
9
3
3
17388
AgentBench:
Evaluating LLMs as
Agents(Liu et al.,
2023b)
2406
174
Deep Learning →
LLMs
propose a
dataset/li-
brary
RAM: 15GB; GPU:
1; OpenAI API
3
3
2
18889
An Extensible
Framework for Open
Heterogeneous
Collaborative
Perception(Lu et al.,
2024b)
181
48
RL →Multi-agent
propose a
new ML
applica-
tion
RAM: ≥16GB;
GPUs: 2; CUDA
compatible
5
0
0
19128
CLIPSelf: Vision
Transformer for Dense
Prediction(Wu et al.,
2024)
183
70
Applications →
Computer Vision
propose a
new ML
applica-
tion
RAM: 8GB; GPU: 1
3
3
5
18660
TorchRL: A
data-driven
decision-making
library for
PyTorch(Bou et al.,
2023)
2570
46
RL →Deep RL
propose a
dataset/li-
brary
RAM: ≥8GB;
GPUs
recommended; API
access may be
needed
5
0
0
19209
Large Language
Models as
Optimizers(Yang
et al., 2024a)
506
829
Optimization →
Learning for
Optimization
propose a
new ML
applica-
tion
likely RAM-heavy;
API keys required;
GPUs recommended
0
0
5
18439
Smooth ECE:
Principled Reliability
Diagrams via Kernel
Smoothing(Błasiok &
Nakkiran, 2023)
139
21
Probabilistic
Methods →
Calibration
propose a
new ML
applica-
tion
standard memory
for Python scripts
3
0
0
17595
Zero Bubble (Almost)
Pipeline Parallelism
(Qi et al., 2024a)
344
13
Optimization →
Parallel
Other
memory: 16GB;
GPUs: 8
9
0
0
18531
CivRealm: A
Learning and
Reasoning Odyssey
for Agents(Qi et al.,
2024b)
106
21
RL →Multi-agent
propose a
dataset/li-
brary
RAM: 8–16GB;
GPU: 1;
Freeciv-web access
1
4
3
18540
Safe RLHF: Safe
Reinforcement
Learning from Human
Feedback(Dai et al.,
2023)
1421
329
RL →Safe RLHF
propose a
training
algorithm
OpenAI API; GPUs:
A800-80GB ×8
4
3
2
19008
On the Humanity of
Conversational AI:
Evaluating the
Psychological
Portrayal of
LLMs(Huang et al.,
2023a)
110
58
Social Aspects →
Trustworthy ML
Other
RAM: ≥8GB;
OpenAI API; GPU
recommended
2
3
1
Table 5: NeurIPS 2024 Papers
ID
Title
Stars
Cit.#
Domain
Key Dist.
Resource
T1
T2
T3
93022
Generative Modeling
of Molecular
Dynamics
Trajectories(Jing et al.,
2024a)
144
13
Generative Models
→New Approaches
propose
an archi-
tecture
GPUs not specified,
but PyTorch and
related libraries
suggest a need for a
CUDA-compatible
GPU. Memory
requirements
unspecified.
8
0
0
21


ID
Title
Stars
Cit.#
Domain
Key Dist.
Resource
T1
T2
T3
93431
Trace is the Next
AutoDiff: Generative
Optimization with
Rich Feedback,
Execution Traces, and
LLMs(Cheng et al.,
2024)
492
9
Optimization →
Generative Models
propose
an archi-
tecture
memory needed: 8
GB RAM
minimum, OpenAI
API key required,
GPU: 1 x NVIDIA
GPU
recommended,
6
3
3
98316
Causal-learn: Causal
Discovery in
Python(Zheng et al.,
2023)
1287
96
Causality
propose
an archi-
tecture
memory needed:
Standard (depends
on the dataset),
GPU: Not required,
3
5
2
95333
3DGS-Enhancer:
Enhancing
Unbounded 3D
Gaussian Splatting
with View-consistent
2D Diffusion
Priors(Liu et al.,
2024c)
170
16
Computer Vision →
Video Generation
propose
an archi-
tecture
memory needed:
16GB, Yes, GPU
type: NVIDIA,
GPU amount: 1,
3
2
3
98326
TorchOpt: An
Efficient Library for
Differentiable
Optimization(Ren
et al., 2022)
570
17
Optimization →
Zero-order and
Black-box
Optimization
propose
an archi-
tecture
memory needed:
At least 8GB RAM,
GPU type:
NVIDIA, GPU
amount: 1,
2
4
3
98318
BenchMARL:
Benchmarking
Multi-Agent
Reinforcement
Learning(Bettini et al.,
2024)
351
30
Reinforcement
Learning →
Multi-agent
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
At least 8GB RAM
recommended,
GPU: 1x NVIDIA
GPU (e.g., GTX
1080 or better),
4
4
1
95818
Classification Done
Right for
Vision-Language
Pre-Training(Huang
et al., 2024b)
200
2
Multimodal Models
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
16 GB, GPU type:
NVIDIA V100,
GPU amount: 1,
5
3
4
95974
Reasoning
Multi-Agent
Behavioral Topology
for Interactive
Autonomous
Driving(Liu et al.,
2024a)
107
2
Reinforcement
Learning →
Multi-agent
propose a
dataset
memory needed: 8
GB RAM
minimum, GPU: 1
NVIDIA GPU
recommended,
3
4
2
97514
HEST-1k: A Dataset
For Spatial
Transcriptomics and
Histology Image
Analysis(Jaume et al.,
2024)
236
36
Computational
Biology
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
2GB, GPU type:
NVIDIA, GPU
amount: 1,
3
4
2
97649
JaxMARL:
Multi-Agent RL
Environments and
Algorithms in
JAX(Rutherford et al.,
2024)
520
20
Reinforcement
Learning →
Multi-agent
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
8GB RAM
minimum, GPU: 1
NVIDIA GPU
(recommended),
2
4
1
97713
WorkArena++:
Towards
Compositional
Planning and
Reasoning-based
Common Knowledge
Work Tasks(Boisvert
et al., 2025)
164
6
Theory →
Reinforcement
Learning and
Planning
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
8GB, GPU: 1,
0
3
5
93219
HAWK: Learning to
Understand
Open-World Video
Anomalies(Tang et al.,
2024)
177
13
Computer
Vision→Video
Understanding
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
Not specified, but
requires
high-performance
GPUs for training.,
GPU: 4 x RTX
A6000 48G,
3
0
0
94065
NeuRodin: A
Two-stage Framework
for High-Fidelity
Neural Surface
Reconstruction(Wang
et al., 2024d)
117
6
Computer Vision →
3D Reconstruction
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
At least 8GB, GPU
type: NVIDIA
GPU, GPU amount:
1 or more,
4
4
2
22


ID
Title
Stars
Cit.#
Domain
Key Dist.
Resource
T1
T2
T3
96264
Buffer of Thoughts:
Thought-Augmented
Reasoning with Large
Language
Models(Yang et al.,
2024b)
608
47
Generative Models
→Reasoning
propose
an archi-
tecture
memory needed:
16GB, True, GPU
type: NVIDIA,
GPU amount: 1,
1
4
11
96897
BAdam: A Memory
Efficient Full
Parameter
Optimization Method
for Large Language
Models(Luo et al.,
2024)
244
4
Optimization →
Large Scale, Parallel
and Distributed
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
23.5 GB for Llama
3-8B, 21.8 GB for
Llama 2-7B, GPU
type: RTX3090,
GPU amount: 1,
6
3
3
94480
InfLLM:
Training-Free
Long-Context
Extrapolation for
LLMs with an
Efficient Context
Memory(Xiao et al.,
2024)
335
38
Language →
Knowledge
propose
an archi-
tecture
memory needed:
Minimum 16 GB
GPU memory,
GPU type:
NVIDIA, GPU
amount: 1,
4
3
8
93638
Self-playing
Adversarial Language
Game Enhances LLM
Reasoning(Cheng
et al., 2025)
120
31
Generative Models
→Reasoning
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
40G per GPU,
GPU type: A100,
GPU amount: 32,
0
2
5
94328
QuaRot: Outlier-Free
4-Bit Inference in
Rotated
LLMs(Ashkboos
et al., 2024)
351
143
Deep Learning →
Attention
Mechanisms
propose
an archi-
tecture
memory needed:
16 GB, GPU type:
NVIDIA A100,
GPU amount: 1,
17
5
1
95262
MoE Jetpack: From
Dense Checkpoints to
Adaptive Mixture of
Experts for Vision
Tasks(Zhu et al.,
2024a)
105
3
Deep Learning →
Algorithms
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
Not specified, but
likely requires
significant RAM
for training., GPU
type: NVIDIA,
GPU amount: 4,
1
3
8
94391
CycleNet: Enhancing
Time Series
Forecasting through
Modeling Periodic
Patterns(Lin et al.,
2024)
133
15
Time Series
propose
an archi-
tecture
memory needed:
Minimum of 16
GB RAM, GPU: 1
NVIDIA GPU
(e.g., Tesla V100 or
equivalent),
7
3
4
96893
SegVol: Universal and
Interactive Volumetric
Medical Image
Segmentation(Du
et al., 2025)
295
48
Computer Vision →
Segmentation
propose
an archi-
tecture
memory needed:
16GB, GPU type:
NVIDIA, GPU
amount: 1,
6
3
1
94155
Voxel Mamba:
Group-Free State
Space Models for
Point Cloud based 3D
Object
Detection(Zhang et al.,
2024a)
110
26
Computer Vision →
3D Object Detection
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
Not specified, but
high memory usage
expected due to
multi-GPU
training, GPU type:
NVIDIA A100,
GPU amount: 8,
2
4
5
97431
Bag of Tricks:
Benchmarking of
Jailbreak Attacks on
LLMs(Xu et al., 2024)
122
15
Trustworthy
Machine Learning
propose a
dataset
Requires access to
multiple GPUs (50
A800 GPUs
recommended);
approximately
55,000 GPU hours
for experiments.
12
0
0
97791
The Multimodal
Universe: Enabling
Large-Scale Machine
Learning with 100 TB
of Astronomical
Scientific
Data(Collaboration
et al., 2024)
379
2
Multimodal Models
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
64 GB RAM, GPU:
2 NVIDIA A100,
4
3
1
23


ID
Title
Stars
Cit.#
Domain
Key Dist.
Resource
T1
T2
T3
97609
DrivAerNet++: A
Large-Scale
Multimodal Car
Dataset with
Computational Fluid
Dynamics Simulations
and Deep Learning
Benchmarks(Elrefaie
et al., 2025)
274
20
Datasets and
Benchmarks
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
1000 GB, GPU: 2
NVIDIA GPUs
(e.g., RTX 3090 or
equivalent),
2
0
0
97674
Needle In A
Multimodal
Haystack(Wang et al.,
2024b)
112
20
Multimodal Models
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
not specified, GPU
type: NVIDIA,
GPU amount: 8,
3
0
0
97882
The Well: a
Large-Scale
Collection of Diverse
Physics Simulations
for Machine
Learning(Ohana et al.,
2025)
761
8
Physical Models →
Physics
propose a
dataset
memory needed:
16GB, GPU type:
NVIDIA CUDA,
GPU amount: 1,
3
0
0
C
SOCIETAL IMPACT
The advancement of AI agents capable of conducting AI research, as facilitated by benchmarks like
EXP-Bench, offers positive societal impacts. It might significantly shorten innovation cycles within
AI itself and lead to more rapid advancements in machine learning capabilities. While a faster pace
of AI development can also democratize research tools and improve overall scientific efficiency, it
concurrently amplifies the importance of addressing potential negative societal consequences. On
the other hand, the rapid evolution of AI capabilities heightens risks, where we need to be careful
about potential misuse, algorithmic bias, and the evolving role of human researchers, alongside the
development of robust governance.
D
THE USE OF LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS (LLMS)
In accordance with the ICLR 2026 guidelines on LLM usage, we disclose that LLMs were used solely
for grammar and style checking during the preparation of this manuscript. No LLMs contributed to
research ideation, experimental design, analysis, or substantive writing.
24


E
AVERAGE SCORES ACROSS ALL PAPER CATEGORIES
Defintions. Comp. Biology refers to Computational Biology. CV refers to Computer Vision. D & B
refers to Datasets & Benchmarks. Gen. Models refers to Generative Models. Proba. Methods refers
to Probabilistic Methods. RL refers to Reinforcement Learning.
Addendum. Table. 6 contains updated values for IA+3.5 Haiku for the Applications and Reinforce-
ment Learning categories.
Table 6: Average benchmark scores of various models and agents across select task categories.
Evaluation performed against EXP-Bench.
Category
Agent
Model
D
I
E
I·E
C
All✓
All✓·E
Applications
OH
Nova Pro
19.2
23.9
19.0
0.0
13.9
0.0
0.0
Applications
OH
o3-mini
9.0
8.0
0.0
0.0
8.3
0.0
0.0
Applications
OH
3.5 Haiku
19.2
24.5
8.3
5.6
8.3
0.0
0.0
Applications
OH
3.7 Sonnet
9.0
26.8
30.8
7.7
8.3
2.8
0.0
Applications
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
9.8
5.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Applications
IA
3.5 Haiku
6.8
32.3
33.3
16.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
Applications
OH
DeepSeek R1
3.1
4.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Causality
OH
o3-mini
37.8
44.6
22.2
11.1
44.4
11.1
11.1
Causality
OH
3.7 Sonnet
36.6
83.1
88.9
66.7
44.4
0.0
0.0
Causality
IA
3.5 Haiku
23.1
40.6
40.0
0.0
20.0
0.0
0.0
Causality
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
11.7
20.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Causality
OH
3.5 Haiku
48.7
36.6
0.0
0.0
33.3
0.0
0.0
Causality
OH
Nova Pro
17.7
14.9
0.0
0.0
11.1
0.0
0.0
Causality
OH
DeepSeek R1
10.0
18.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Comp. Biology
OH
o3-mini
37.0
30.3
11.1
0.0
44.4
11.1
0.0
Comp. Biology
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
16.7
20.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Comp. Biology
IA
3.5 Haiku
3.2
7.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Comp. Biology
OH
Nova Pro
31.2
29.3
0.0
0.0
33.3
0.0
0.0
Comp. Biology
OH
3.5 Haiku
4.8
9.7
0.0
0.0
11.1
0.0
0.0
Comp. Biology
OH
3.7 Sonnet
4.8
11.1
0.0
0.0
11.1
0.0
0.0
Comp. Biology
OH
DeepSeek R1
12.2
22.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
CV
OH
Nova Pro
24.8
20.9
42.9
0.0
28.2
0.0
0.0
CV
OH
3.7 Sonnet
18.5
28.9
18.2
9.1
21.2
0.0
0.0
CV
OH
o3-mini
11.5
9.3
5.1
2.6
12.8
0.0
0.0
CV
OH
3.5 Haiku
15.9
28.3
4.5
0.0
12.8
0.0
0.0
CV
OH
DeepSeek R1
5.8
11.2
0.0
0.0
2.6
0.0
0.0
CV
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
5.3
28.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
CV
IA
3.5 Haiku
6.4
17.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
D & B
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
D & B
OH
o3-mini
0.0
46.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
D & B
OH
DeepSeek R1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
D & B
OH
3.5 Haiku
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
D & B
OH
3.7 Sonnet
19.0
89.5
50.0
50.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
D & B
OH
Nova Pro
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Deep Learning
OH
o3-mini
17.6
14.1
13.4
0.9
20.5
0.0
0.0
Deep Learning
OH
3.5 Haiku
20.2
25.3
12.8
1.3
15.2
0.0
0.0
Deep Learning
OH
3.7 Sonnet
17.2
37.4
37.1
5.7
14.3
0.9
0.0
Deep Learning
OH
DeepSeek R1
7.4
6.3
0.0
0.0
2.2
0.0
0.0
Deep Learning
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
9.2
21.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Deep Learning
IA
3.5 Haiku
9.4
16.9
14.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Deep Learning
OH
Nova Pro
16.4
16.5
0.0
0.0
16.1
0.0
0.0
Gen. Models
OH
o3-mini
23.6
27.9
30.4
17.4
29.0
6.5
4.3
Gen. Models
OH
3.7 Sonnet
17.6
25.8
26.1
13.0
7.4
0.0
0.0
Gen. Models
IA
3.5 Haiku
5.4
24.8
45.5
27.3
3.0
0.0
0.0
Gen. Models
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
13.9
10.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Gen. Models
OH
DeepSeek R1
9.2
19.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
25


Gen. Models
OH
Nova Pro
14.7
16.7
0.0
0.0
9.7
0.0
0.0
Gen. Models
OH
3.5 Haiku
23.6
31.0
0.0
0.0
9.7
0.0
0.0
Language
OH
o3-mini
16.3
8.5
13.3
0.0
20.0
0.0
0.0
Language
IA
3.5 Haiku
4.4
11.7
80.0
0.0
13.3
0.0
0.0
Language
OH
3.7 Sonnet
4.6
22.9
20.0
6.7
6.7
0.0
0.0
Language
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
2.1
33.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Language
OH
DeepSeek R1
6.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Language
OH
3.5 Haiku
8.5
11.5
0.0
0.0
13.3
0.0
0.0
Language
OH
Nova Pro
8.4
4.3
0.0
0.0
6.7
0.0
0.0
Multimodal
OH
o3-mini
10.9
23.7
13.6
4.5
13.6
0.0
0.0
Multimodal
OH
Nova Pro
18.9
32.8
16.7
0.0
13.6
0.0
0.0
Multimodal
OH
3.5 Haiku
15.5
17.7
0.0
0.0
13.6
0.0
0.0
Multimodal
OH
3.7 Sonnet
19.7
27.0
18.2
9.1
9.5
0.0
0.0
Multimodal
OH
DeepSeek R1
4.6
9.1
0.0
0.0
9.1
0.0
0.0
Multimodal
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
17.1
50.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Multimodal
IA
3.5 Haiku
3.0
25.3
25.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Optimization
OH
o3-mini
21.5
25.2
25.5
6.4
25.5
0.0
0.0
Optimization
OH
3.7 Sonnet
18.2
35.8
52.0
20.0
18.6
0.0
0.0
Optimization
OH
3.5 Haiku
25.6
28.1
11.5
0.0
12.8
0.0
0.0
Optimization
OH
Nova Pro
17.1
21.0
50.0
0.0
10.6
0.0
0.0
Optimization
OH
DeepSeek R1
9.5
18.6
3.8
0.0
6.4
0.0
0.0
Optimization
IA
Nova Pro
1.4
9.8
19.2
0.0
3.2
0.0
0.0
Optimization
IA
3.5 Haiku
8.9
31.4
60.0
12.0
2.5
0.0
0.0
Physical Models
OH
o3-mini
60.0
23.0
66.7
0.0
66.7
0.0
0.0
Physical Models
OH
Nova Pro
51.7
0.0
50.0
0.0
33.3
0.0
0.0
Physical Models
OH
DeepSeek R1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Physical Models
OH
3.5 Haiku
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Physical Models
OH
3.7 Sonnet
0.0
16.7
33.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Physical Models
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Proba. Methods
OH
3.5 Haiku
49.0
32.0
33.3
0.0
66.7
0.0
0.0
Proba. Methods
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Proba. Methods
OH
o3-mini
28.7
49.3
100.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Proba. Methods
OH
DeepSeek R1
0.0
23.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Proba. Methods
OH
3.7 Sonnet
86.0
86.0
100.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Proba. Methods
OH
Nova Pro
45.0
11.0
0.0
0.0
66.7
0.0
0.0
Proba. Methods
IA
3.5 Haiku
0.0
57.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
RL
OH
3.7 Sonnet
18.3
48.2
27.3
21.2
17.6
2.0
3.0
RL
OH
o3-mini
23.5
34.8
15.7
2.0
27.5
3.9
0.0
RL
OH
3.5 Haiku
27.7
41.4
11.5
0.0
17.6
0.0
0.0
RL
IA
3.5 Haiku
3.0
29.0
24.0
0.0
2.2
0.0
0.0
RL
OH
DeepSeek R1
5.0
10.3
0.0
0.0
2.0
0.0
0.0
RL
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
8.6
9.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
RL
OH
Nova Pro
17.9
28.9
0.0
0.0
13.7
0.0
0.0
Social Aspects
OH
Nova Pro
15.5
20.2
0.0
0.0
27.8
0.0
0.0
Social Aspects
OH
o3-mini
21.7
22.8
16.7
0.0
22.2
0.0
0.0
Social Aspects
OH
3.5 Haiku
18.9
23.4
5.6
0.0
11.1
0.0
0.0
Social Aspects
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
18.7
16.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Social Aspects
OH
3.7 Sonnet
11.1
23.5
100.0
100.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Social Aspects
IA
3.5 Haiku
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Social Aspects
OH
DeepSeek R1
9.7
9.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Theory
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
11.7
33.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Theory
IA
3.5 Haiku
0.0
16.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Theory
OH
o3-mini
0.0
11.2
16.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Theory
OH
3.7 Sonnet
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Theory
OH
DeepSeek R1
13.8
3.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Theory
OH
Nova Pro
16.7
17.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Theory
OH
3.5 Haiku
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Time Series
OH
o3-mini
24.0
37.9
7.7
0.0
30.8
0.0
0.0
Time Series
OH
3.7 Sonnet
16.5
65.4
61.5
30.8
15.4
0.0
0.0
26


Time Series
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
23.6
12.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Time Series
IA
3.5 Haiku
19.5
34.5
37.5
37.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
Time Series
OH
Nova Pro
16.7
10.0
0.0
0.0
15.4
0.0
0.0
Time Series
OH
DeepSeek R1
6.3
8.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Time Series
OH
3.5 Haiku
19.2
15.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Trustworthy ML
OH
3.5 Haiku
15.5
21.3
0.0
0.0
25.0
0.0
0.0
Trustworthy ML
IA
Nova Pro
0.0
4.0
16.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Trustworthy ML
OH
o3-mini
6.7
3.8
8.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Trustworthy ML
OH
Nova Pro
20.3
1.5
12.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
Trustworthy ML
OH
3.7 Sonnet
12.2
20.8
16.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
27


F
EXTENDED EXP-BENCH EXAMPLES
This section presents two extended examples from EXP-Bench: a question concerning robust detection
in collaborative perception under imperfect localization, and a question focused on implementing a
Time Delay Neural Network (TDNN) for automatic speech recognition. Each example details the
experiment’s objective, methodology, relevant source code, and expected outcomes. The examples
also include an analysis of agent performance on completing the task.
F.1
EXAMPLE 1: ROBUST DETECTION IN COLLABORATIVE PERCEPTION
This example question was extended from the paper An Extensible Framework for Open Heteroge-
neous Collaborative Perception (Lu et al., 2024b).
The objective of this experiment is to assess whether HEAL (HEterogeneous ALliance) can maintain
robust detection performance under realistic conditions of imperfect localization, when Gaussian noise
is added to the agents’ poses. The experiment maintains constant variables such as the dataset (OPV2V-
H) and the model architecture (HEAL). The independent variables are the position noise and rotation
noise, while the dependent variable is the model’s detection performance matrices (AP30, AP50, and
AP70). Experimental groups test the addition of Gaussian rotation and position noise at levels of 0, 0.2,
0.4, and 0.6 meters/degrees to accurate poses. The results will contribute to evaluating the robustness
of a cooperative perception model under conditions of imperfect localization. EXP-Bench extends
this task from the original paper section 5.3 QUANTITATIVE RESULTS and utilizes the
source code: /workspace/opencood/tools/inference_w_noise.py from the GitHub
repository https://github.com/yifanlu0227/HEAL. Note that /workspace/ refers to
the working directory from the agent’s initialization context.
The general formulation of the task includes the question posted to the agent, the overall method of
the experiment, the source of this question (specifically the section in the paper and the source code),
and the expected outcome. This is illustrated in Fig. 7a.
The agent’s task is to use the provided GitHub repository, with the source code masked, to conduct
this experiment. To aid the agent in reconstructing the masked file, detailed instructions are provided,
as shown in Fig. 7b.
Evaluation of the task includes design, conclusion, and setup evaluation. The conclusion appears in
the ‘expected outcome’ in Fig. 7a. Design and setup evaluation are based on ‘design complexity’ and
‘requirements’ respectively, shown in Fig 8.
An example agent output using the bedrock-us-anthropic-claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219-v1-0 LLM as
a backbone is showcased here. We perform a diff operation between the code generated by the agent
and the original source code. As this agent reconstructs several files to fulfil the task requirement,
we focus on a diff operation between the core reconstructed file (evaluate_robustness.py)
and the source file (inference_w_noise.py), shown in Fig. 9. The two files share the same
functional goal and have a similar overall structure; however, the agent performs invalid operations
in another file (reproduce_exp_bench.sh), leading to a failure in completing the task. The
detailed reasoning provided by the judge is illustrated in Fig. 10.
28


(a) The formulation of the task question.
(b) Instructions provided to the agent.
Figure 7: Task Fields for Example 1.
29


Figure 8: Evaluation of the design and setup for the Extended Task in Example 1.
30


Figure 9: Example 1’s Git diff comparing the masked source file and the agent-reconstructed source
code. Red highlights indicate deletions, while green highlights represent additions.
31


Figure 10: Error Analysis and Comprehensive Explanation of the agent’s failure to complete the task
in Example 1.
32


F.2
EXAMPLE 2: TIME DELAY NEURAL NETWORK FOR ASR
This example is extended from the paper Zipformer: A Faster and Better Encoder for Automatic
Speech Recognition (Yao et al., 2024).
The objective of this experiment is to implement a Time Delay Neural Network (TDNN) that
achieves a Word Error Rate (WER) of less than 1% on the test set. This setup focuses on construct-
ing a TDNN model with three Conv1d layers—each followed by ReLU activation and Batch
Normalization—and a final linear layer to produce log probabilities for phoneme classes.
The dataset (yesno), model type (TDNN), loss function (Connectionist temporal classification),
and feature extraction method (23-dimensional fbank features) are held constant. Independent
variables include the model architecture, training hyperparameters (e.g., learning rate, weight de-
cay), and number of epochs, while the dependent variable is the WER obtained during evalua-
tion. This task emphasizes practical training and decoding using k2’s one_best_decoding
method and evaluates performance using the WER metric, targeting values below 1%. EXP-Bench
extends this task beyond the baseline speech recognition example by formalizing an end-to-end
pipeline using code modules: /workspace/egs/yesno/ASR/tdnn/model.py, train.py,
decode.py, and asr_datamodule.py from the Github repository https://github.com/
k2-fsa/icefall.
The general formulation of the task includes the question posted to the agent, the overall method of
the experiment, the source of this question (specifically the section in the paper and the source code),
and the expected outcome. This is illustrated in Fig. 11a.
Again, the agent’s task is to use the provided GitHub repository, with the source code masked, to
conduct this experiment. To aid the agent in reconstructing the masked file, we provide structured
instructions (Fig. 11b); rather than specifying every architectural detail, it simulates a realistic
experimental setting where some gaps remain and the agent must experiment to achieve the target
outcome (i.e., a WER of less than 1% on the test set). This balance ensures that the agent has
sufficient guidance to proceed, while still reflecting the trial-and-error nature of real-world research.
Similarly, evaluation of the task includes design, conclusion, and setup evaluation. The conclusion
appears in the ‘expected outcome’ in Fig. 11a. Design and setup evaluation are based on ‘design
complexity’ and ‘requirement’ respectively, shown in Fig 12.
For the agent performance in this example, we make use of an agent’s output using the bedrock-us-
amazon-nova-pro-v1-0 LLM backbone. We perform a diff operation between the code generated by
the agent and the original implementation files provided in the baseline. Since the agent restructures
multiple modules to accomplish the speech recognition task, our analysis focuses on a diff between
the core model implementation file (model.py) and the original reference. The agent correctly
builds the TDNN model and integrates it with the training and decoding pipeline. The two versions
of model files share a similar architectural skeleton, but differ in details such as layer configuration
and parameter initialisation. The differences are shown in Fig. 13.
33


(a) The formulation of the task question.
(b) Instructions provided to the agent.
Figure 11: Task fields for Example 2.
34


Figure 12: The design and setup evaluation of the extended task in Example 2.
35


Figure 13: Example 2’s Git diff of the masked source file and the agent reconstructed source code. In
the diff, red highlights are deletions. Green highlights are additions.
36


G
DATASET CURATION AND BENCHMARK CONSTRUCTION DETAILS
To ensure the quality and integrity of EXP-Bench, we developed the curation pipeline through a
careful, iterative process. Each component was prototyped, tested on real papers, and refined based
on manual inspection by collaborators. This allowed us to isolate and address specific failure modes
incrementally, steadily increasing curation throughput without compromising accuracy. Several
representative issues that were patched in our final pipeline are documented in Table. 7. Overall, 120
tasks were attempted end-to-end by our team to ensure the construction pipeline worked properly.
Finally, manual validation of all constructed tasks was also aided by the availability of ground truth
from the papers and open-source code repositories themselves, making the verification process
relatively straightforward. The EXP-Bench team is committed to the long-term maintenance and
growth of the dataset. We acknowledge that, despite our efforts, some issues may remain in the dataset.
To address that, we will actively monitor feedback and bug reports via GitHub and HuggingFace
issue trackers and will address any concerns raised by the community post-release. All data is hosted
on both platforms to ensure accessibility and stability, with potential plans to replicate the dataset
on archival storage for long-term preservation. We will continue exploring additional techniques to
further safeguard the solvability of our tasks. To foster transparency, reuse, and critical engagement,
the dataset will be released under the permissive Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 license, and all
code under the MIT license. We encourage the community to explore, build upon, and challenge
EXP-Bench as an open and evolving resource.
Table 7: Examples of extraction issues identified that were subsequently patched in the final pipeline.
Task Component
Issue
Actual Example
Question
The hypothesis is a statement
instead of a question
BaDExpert outperforms baseline defenses in
backdoor detection on CIFAR10, achieving
significantly higher AUROC (near 99%).
Conclusion data mentioned in
the hypothesis
Specifically, can PDF achieve around 34.64%
lower MACs compared to PatchTST and
74.38% lower MACs ...?
Masked source
Masked source doesn’t exist
"source": ["/workspace/-
topomlp_setA_r50_w_otransform.py"...]
Included masked source with
wrong path
MuSc has musc.py under workspace/model/
but the source file indicates it under
workspace/example/
Requirements
Steps are too specific
Run the evaluation script for the baseline
EVA-CLIP ViT-B/16 model using distributed
processing with 8 GPUs...
Asking the agent to use a
masked source script
Merge the trained models using the
heal_tools.py script
(/workspace/opencood/tools/heal_tools.py:115-
130)
Invalid operation
Analyze execution outcomes from Table 4,
comparing...
Expected
outcome
Conclusion not aligned with the
paper’s findings
N/A
Method / Usage
Instruction /
Agent Instruction
Mentioned specific parts of the
paper (tables or figures)
The scripts will log metrics including mean
rewards and standard deviations, which can
be compared with the reported results in
Table 2 of the paper.
Required hyperparameters not
given in the agent instruction
Set appropriate model architecture
parameters (encoder layers, attention heads,
dimensions)
Invalid operations
Collect and analyze performance results from
Table 3, ...
37


Time and Cost Expenditure. During the initial phases—before our curation pipeline was final-
ized—each paper required roughly two hours of manual effort. This involved a full read-through
(with emphasis on evaluation sections), task-by-task verification, and iterative pipeline corrections to
ensure compatibility. The process included checking GitHub repositories, assessing setup validity
and complexity, and verifying alignment with the paper’s descriptions. Once the pipeline was fully
constructed and refined based on feedback, manual validation time dropped to around 20 minutes per
paper, primarily to confirm alignment. Only minor adjustments were rarely needed, and we expect
this time to decrease further in future deployments. LLM-related extraction costs varied by task type
and count, averaging approximately $60 USD per paper. For extraction, we used o3-mini-2025-01-
01-preview for the main task extraction and claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219-v1:0 for implementation
extraction. Costs were primarily driven by input tokens, as the models required full paper texts and
codebases to perform accurate extraction.
38


H
EXTENDED ANALYSIS ON PREVALENT AGENT FAILURE PATTERNS
Some overlap between categories may exist, as the classification was performed by an LLM.
Table 8: Agents fail in diverse ways across different phases of experimentation, measured across all
agent and model evaluations.
Phase
Failure Type
Prevalence (%)
conclusion
Missing Conclusion Content
26.18
conclusion
Incorrect Conclusion Interpretation
19.66
conclusion
Incomplete Conclusion Outcome Statement
14.43
conclusion
Extraneous Details
7.77
conclusion
Missing Conclusion Analysis
4.35
conclusion
Missing Comparative Conclusion Analysis
4.03
conclusion
Minor Omission of Specific Details
3.47
conclusion
Incorrect Numeric Conclusion
3.21
conclusion
Mismatched Conclusion Format
2.7
conclusion
Error Message Output
2.67
conclusion
Incomplete Conclusion with Missing Exp. Findings
2.14
conclusion
Conclusion Diverges from Expected Emphasis
1.6
conclusion
Missing Comparative Analysis
0.8
conclusion
Missing Quantitative Performance Metrics
0.8
conclusion
Missing Visualization Details
0.56
conclusion
Incomplete Performance Evaluation
0.53
conclusion
Missing Numerical Equivalence Verification
0.53
conclusion
Missing Trend Analysis
0.53
conclusion
Naming Inconsistency Output
0.53
conclusion
Conclusion Partially Matching with Numerical Deviations
0.27
conclusion
Deviation in Saturation Point Conclusion
0.27
conclusion
Inconsistent ASR Reporting
0.27
conclusion
Missing Conclusion Analysis on Attack Budget Effects
0.27
conclusion
Missing Diminishing Returns Analysis
0.27
conclusion
Missing Methodological Innovation Discussion
0.27
conclusion
Missing Performance Evaluation Metrics
0.27
conclusion
Missing Submission Format Specification
0.27
design
Incomplete or Misclassified Design Variables
16.05
design
Omission of Required Design Variables
19.84
design
Complete Omission of Exp. Design Variables
13.1
design
Incorrect Design Specification Details
8.32
design
Incomplete Exp. Design Details
7.67
design
Irrelevant Procedural Additions
7.62
design
Missing Design Variable Information
3.83
design
Inclusion of Extraneous Factors
3.64
design
Incorrect Parameter Details
3.18
design
Partial Omission of Constant Variables
2.75
design
Incomplete Constant Variable Specification
3.61
design
Partial Fulfillment of DV
1.93
design
Error Message Returned Instead of Design Information
1.27
design
Incomplete Differentiation of Constant and Ind. Variables
1.27
design
Missing Dependent Variable Tracking
1.06
design
Incomplete Exp. Design Specification
0.64
design
Incomplete Specification of Design Variables
0.64
design
Missing Hyperparameter Design Details
0.64
design
Partially Complete Design Variable Specification
0.64
design
Missing Design Formatting Details
0.42
design
Missing Design Variables Details
0.42
design
Missing Explicit Variable Labeling
0.42
design
Missing Configuration File Variable
0.21
design
Missing Input Format Details
0.21
39


design
Omission of Exp. Configuration Details
0.21
design
Omission of Fixed Block Partition
0.21
design
Partial Design Variable Extraction with Misclassification
0.21
exec
Environment/Dependency Configuration Errors
29.38
exec
Execution Script and File Errors
23.84
exec
Missing Dependency Error
11.9
exec
Missing Setup Script File
6.95
exec
Tensor Operation Execution Error
3.22
exec
Syntax Error in Execution Environment
2.86
exec
Missing Input Data File
2.27
exec
Missing Required Attribute in Execution
2.27
exec
Missing Evaluation Output Files
1.82
exec
Missing Requirements File
1.82
exec
Runtime Indexing Error During Generation
1.82
exec
Insufficient Shared Memory in DataLoader Execution
1.41
exec
Execution Environment Warning: Root Privilege Usage
1.36
exec
Incorrect Dependency Import in Execution
1.36
exec
Dependency Version Conflict
0.91
exec
Docker Execution Failure
0.91
exec
Incomplete Results Saving Impl.
0.91
exec
Incorrect Dataset Loading
0.91
exec
Incorrect Function Argument Handling
0.91
exec
Missing Hugging Face API Token Authentication
0.91
exec
Missing Performance Metrics and Argument Parsing
0.91
exec
Missing Trust Remote Code Flag in Execution Environment
0.91
exec
Missing Setup Script File
0.45
setup
Missing Essential Impl. Components
39.71
setup
Incomplete Evaluation Metric Impl.
2.15
setup
Missing Critical Exp. Setup Details
1.88
setup
Incomplete Data and Preprocessing Setup
1.83
setup
Missing Command Line Argument Parsing
1.58
setup
Incomplete Exp. Setup Impl.
1.49
setup
Incomplete Training Regimen Impl.
1.47
setup
Incomplete Comparative Setup Features
1.25
setup
Missing Modular Helper Functions
1.13
setup
Incomplete Dataset Splitting Setup
1.04
setup
Missing Comparative Evaluation Methods
1.02
setup
Naming Inconsistencies Components
1.02
setup
Missing Detailed Architectural Parameters
0.91
setup
Incorrect Model Initialization
0.9
setup
Missing Optimizer Configuration
0.9
setup
Incomplete Evaluation Procedure
0.79
setup
Missing Critical Import Statements
0.79
setup
Missing Essential Library Imports
0.56
setup
Incomplete Results Saving Impl.
0.45
setup
Incomplete or Misplaced Setup Impls.
0.45
setup
Incorrect Dependency Import
0.45
setup
Misconfigured Exp. Infrastructure
0.45
setup
Missing C++ Acceleration Integration
0.45
setup
Missing Distributed Training Parameters
0.45
setup
Missing Hardware/Device Configuration
0.45
setup
Missing Training Pipeline Configuration
0.45
setup
Incorrect Evaluation Metric Impl.
0.37
setup
Incorrect Forward Method Impl.
0.35
setup
Hard-Coded Configuration Instead of YAML Loading
0.34
setup
Incomplete Benchmark Configuration
0.34
setup
Incomplete Rendering Pipeline Impl.
0.34
setup
Incorrect Model Architecture
0.34
setup
Incorrect Testing Dataset Usage
0.34
40


setup
Misconfigured Exp. Setup Parameters
0.34
setup
Missing Configuration File Loading
0.34
setup
Missing Critical Function Impls.
0.34
setup
Missing Critical Quantization Procedures
0.34
setup
Missing Essential Parameter Initializations
0.34
setup
Missing Intermediate Data Reuse Mechanism
0.34
setup
Missing Loss Function and Evaluation Metric Setup
0.34
setup
Missing Model Architectures
0.34
setup
Missing Model Evaluation Mode Invocation
0.34
setup
Missing Model and Dataset Integration
0.34
setup
Missing Reproducibility Measures
0.34
setup
Missing Feedback Mechanism
0.24
setup
Environment/Dependency Configuration Errors
0.23
setup
Faulty Dataset Integration
0.23
setup
Faulty Training Script Logic
0.23
setup
Impl. Mismatch with Setup Specification
0.23
setup
Incomplete Benchmarking Function Impl.
0.23
setup
Inconsistent Configuration
0.23
setup
Incorrect File Naming/Structure
0.23
setup
Insufficient Exp. Setup Impl.
0.23
setup
Missing Chain-of-Thought Module
0.23
setup
Missing Conditional Model Initialization
0.23
setup
Missing Dimensionality Reduction Impl.
0.23
setup
Missing Evaluation on Validation Data
0.23
setup
Missing Exp. Entry Point Impl.
0.23
setup
Missing Exp. Resumption Mechanism
0.23
setup
Missing Explicit Data Loader
0.23
setup
Missing Explicit Model Arch. for Inner Optimization
0.23
setup
Missing Final Agent Return Impl.
0.23
setup
Missing Final Test Validation
0.23
setup
Missing Finalization Message
0.23
setup
Missing GPT-based Evaluation Component
0.23
setup
Missing GPU Batch Size Adjustment
0.23
setup
Missing Initial Policy Evaluation
0.23
setup
Missing Logging Mechanism
0.23
setup
Missing Loop Termination Mechanism
0.23
setup
Missing Model and Transform Initialization
0.23
setup
Missing Multi-GPU Result Merge
0.23
setup
Missing Multiple Runs for Statistical Significance
0.23
setup
Missing Periodic Evaluation
0.23
setup
Missing Pretrained Model Loading
0.23
setup
Missing Real-World Benchmark Dataset
0.23
setup
Missing Regularization Term
0.23
setup
Missing Scalability Testing Configuration
0.23
setup
Missing Test Cases
0.23
setup
Missing Visualization Impl.
0.23
setup
Missing Visualization Impl.
0.23
setup
Synthetic Dataset Used Instead of Specified Dataset
0.23
setup
Incomplete Defense Testing Setup
0.14
setup
Missing Critical Evaluation Computation Steps
0.14
setup
Missing Custom CI Test Impl.
0.12
setup
Missing Hydra-based Exp. Runner and Plotting Script
0.12
setup
Missing Key Exp. Pipeline Steps
0.12
setup
Missing Multiple Forecast Horizon Configurations
0.12
setup
Missing Performance Comparison
0.12
setup
Missing Required Evaluation Script Modifications
0.12
setup
Missing Sequence Length Computation
0.12
setup
Ambiguous Evaluation Metric Reporting
0.11
setup
Deviation from Required Library Usage
0.11
41


setup
Faulty Early Stopping Impl.
0.11
setup
Faulty Quantization Branch
0.11
setup
Flawed Visualization Utility Impl.
0.11
setup
Incomplete AstroCLIP Integration
0.11
setup
Incomplete Benchmark Directory Setup
0.11
setup
Incomplete Exp. Setup Impl.
0.11
setup
Incomplete Explanation of Comp. Graph Visualization
0.11
setup
Incomplete Extraction of Runtime Configuration
0.11
setup
Incomplete Inner Objective Impl.
0.11
setup
Incomplete MemoryUnit Impl.
0.11
setup
Incomplete Model Architecture Impl.
0.11
setup
Incomplete Model Weights Download Handling
0.11
setup
Incomplete Optimizer and Scheduler Setup
0.11
setup
Incomplete Output Processing
0.11
setup
Incomplete Parallel Processing Impl.
0.11
setup
Incomplete Prediction and Data Loading Impl.
0.11
setup
Incomplete Quantization Benchmark Param. Config
0.11
setup
Incomplete Result Logging Impl.
0.11
setup
Incomplete Results Saving Impl.
0.11
setup
Incomplete Training Loop and Reproducibility Measures
0.11
setup
Incomplete Visualization Impl.
0.11
setup
Incomplete Visualization Pipeline Impl.
0.11
setup
Incomplete or Misplaced Plotting Impl.
0.11
setup
Inconsistent Dataset Collection Specification
0.11
setup
Inconsistent Feature Extraction Impl.
0.11
setup
Incorrect Benchmark Command Structure
0.11
setup
Incorrect BlockOptimizer Impl.
0.11
setup
Incorrect Class Structure
0.11
setup
Incorrect Dataset Loading
0.11
setup
Incorrect Exp. Split Configuration
0.11
setup
Incorrect Function Signature
0.11
setup
Incorrect Hard-coded Parameter Block Impl.
0.11
setup
Incorrect Independence Test Impl.
0.11
setup
Incorrect Inner Objective Impl.
0.11
setup
Incorrect Optimizer Comparison Impl.
0.11
setup
Incorrect Spatial Matching Impl.
0.11
setup
Ineffective Caching Setup
0.11
setup
Insufficient Benchmark Dataset
0.11
setup
Insufficient Positional Encoding Impl.
0.11
setup
Misconfigured Benchmark Parameters
0.11
setup
Misconfigured Warmup Parameters
0.11
setup
Mismatch in Benchmark Parameter Settings
0.11
setup
Missing Ablation Study Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing Alternative OOP API Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Benchmark Data Processing Components
0.11
setup
Missing Benchmark Runner Function
0.11
setup
Missing Block Parameter Switching Logic
0.11
setup
Missing Block-specific Finetuning Parameters
0.11
setup
Missing Block-wise Parameter Grouping Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing BlockOptimizer Impl. Details
0.11
setup
Missing BoT Pipeline Components
0.11
setup
Missing Checkpoint Loading Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Checkpoint Saving Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Command-Line Toggle for Final Execution
0.11
setup
Missing Comparative Optimization Strategy Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Comparison Visualization Component
0.11
setup
Missing Comprehensive Plotting Components
0.11
setup
Missing Computational Performance Metrics
0.11
setup
Missing Conditional Checks
0.11
42


setup
Missing Conversation and Interactive Setup Components
0.11
setup
Missing Critical Analysis Components
0.11
setup
Missing Critical Benchmark File
0.11
setup
Missing Critical CycleNet Components
0.11
setup
Missing Critical Exp. Tracking Components
0.11
setup
Missing Critical Information Extraction
0.11
setup
Missing Critical Model Module Impls.
0.11
setup
Missing Custom Optimizer and Trainer Integration
0.11
setup
Missing Data Reshaping to Remove Padding
0.11
setup
Missing Data Structure Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Dataset Download Script
0.11
setup
Missing Dedicated Custom Function for Mesh Extraction
0.11
setup
Missing Dedicated Inference Script
0.11
setup
Missing Dedicated Quantized KV Cache Decode Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Dedicated Trainable Bundle Methods Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Detailed Exp. Protocol
0.11
setup
Missing Dynamic Dataset Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing Edge Case Scenario
0.11
setup
Missing Embedding Extraction Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Entry Point Script for Exp. Setup
0.11
setup
Missing Essential Feature Extraction
0.11
setup
Missing Essential Modules and Evaluation Components
0.11
setup
Missing Essential Post-Processing Functions
0.11
setup
Missing Expected Configuration Output
0.11
setup
Missing Expected Conversation Templates
0.11
setup
Missing Exp. File Location
0.11
setup
Missing Exp. Tracking and Run Naming Mechanisms
0.11
setup
Missing Exp. Replication Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing Exp. Script Modifications
0.11
setup
Missing Explicit Meta-Parameter Definition
0.11
setup
Missing Explicit Model Components
0.11
setup
Missing Explicit Parameter Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing Explicit Return of Submission File Path
0.11
setup
Missing Explicit Task List Definition
0.11
setup
Missing External Data and Model Weight Downloading
0.11
setup
Missing Final Evaluation Routine
0.11
setup
Missing Final Output Return
0.11
setup
Missing Fine-tuning Orchestration Function
0.11
setup
Missing Finetuning Type Loader Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Framework Integration Components
0.11
setup
Missing GPU Optimization
0.11
setup
Missing GPU Synchronization
0.11
setup
Missing GPU Transfer and Synchronization Setup
0.11
setup
Missing Gene Expression and Embedding Matching Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Hugging Face API Token Authentication
0.11
setup
Missing Implicit Differentiation Step
0.11
setup
Missing InfLLM Context Memory Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Inference Prompt Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing Input Pre-processing
0.11
setup
Missing Input and Key-Cache Quantization Configurations
0.11
setup
Missing Integration Components for Advanced Training
0.11
setup
Missing Integration Components for Block-wise Optimization
0.11
setup
Missing Intermediate Data Reuse Mechanism
0.11
setup
Missing Learning Rate Scheduler Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Lightning CLI Training Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing Logging Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing MLP Layer Size Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing Main Execution Function
0.11
setup
Missing Mem. Management and Precision Conversion Impl.
0.11
43


setup
Missing Memory Precision Conversion Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Memory Saving Metric Calculation
0.11
setup
Missing Meta-Buffer Template Retrieval
0.11
setup
Missing Model and Transform Initialization
0.11
setup
Missing Network State Extraction in Visualization
0.11
setup
Missing Normalization Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing Normalization Disabling Parameter
0.11
setup
Missing Optimality Condition Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Optional Analysis Component
0.11
setup
Missing Optional Parameter Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Output Directory and Logging Setup
0.11
setup
Missing Performance Metrics and Argument Parsing
0.11
setup
Missing Platform-Specific Parameter Handling
0.11
setup
Missing Platform-Specific Parameter Impl.s
0.11
setup
Missing Parameter Switching and Gradient Checkpointing
0.11
setup
Missing Post-Processing Component
0.11
setup
Missing Post-Processing and Result Saving Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing QMIX Algorithm Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing Random Sampling Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Replication Procedures
0.11
setup
Missing Required Torch-based Impl.s
0.11
setup
Missing Result Storage Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing Result Visualization
0.11
setup
Missing RevIN Normalization Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Reward Shaping Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Scalability Testing Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing Single Scan Visualization Function
0.11
setup
Missing Specialized Trainer Integration
0.11
setup
Missing Standardized Testing Components
0.11
setup
Missing Statistical Evaluation Metrics
0.11
setup
Missing Supervised Fine-Tuning Data Integration
0.11
setup
Missing Surrogate Model (AutoGluon) Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Symbolic Mathematics Library Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Synchronization of Initial Conditions
0.11
setup
Missing Task-Specific Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing Testing Dataset Configuration
0.11
setup
Missing Testing Procedure
0.11
setup
Missing Training Loss Visualization Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Tree Mapping Benchmark Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Unique Run Name and Configuration Adjustments
0.11
setup
Missing Video Processing Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Video Processing and Loss Calculation Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Working Directory Change Command
0.11
setup
Missing Zero-Shot Classifier Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing Zoom-In Inference Impl.
0.11
setup
Missing train.sh File
0.11
setup
Non-standard Evaluation Script Usage
0.11
setup
Omission of Required Benchmark Parameter
0.11
setup
Oversimplified Instrumentation
0.11
setup
Oversimplified Pipeline Simulation
0.11
setup
Missing Separation of Optimization Pipelines
0.11
setup
Partial Impl. of Data Splitting and Hyperparameters
0.11
setup
Response Parsing Failure
0.11
setup
Security and Credential Management Issue
0.11
setup
Successful Setup for Performance Monitoring
0.11
setup
Missing Forecast Generation Step
0.01
44


I
EVALUATION JUDGE
As detailed in the main text (§4.1), our evaluation framework leverages an LLM-based judge (using
o3-mini-2025-01-01-preview) to assess various aspects of agent performance, including
adherence to integrity guidelines, experimental design, implementation correctness, and conclusion
validity. We provide the full system prompts used by our LLM judge in this section.
When we encounter long inputs such as Git diffs and agent logs, the content can sometimes exceed
the context window of the o3-mini model. To address this, we segment the input into individual
chunks that fit within the model’s context length. These chunks are then fed iteratively to the judge,
with the evaluation results and relevant context from one chunk carried over to the subsequent chunk.
This iterative processing ensures that the entire input is evaluated comprehensively without loss of
information due to context length limitations.
Monitor Prompt. The initial integrity check, performed by the Monitor, uses the following prompt
to analyze agent logs for disallowed behaviors (e.g., accessing the research paper directly, performing
Git operations, or using hardcoded data).
Inspect the log to verify the following criteria:
1. The agent did NOT access (i.e., read) the research paper itself
(e.g., the PDF).
2. The agent did NOT perform any Git operations, such as checking out
commits, switching branches, or accessing other versions of the
repository.
3. The agent did NOT use fake, hardcoded, or mock data in place of
real experimental results. In particular, check for any signs of:
- Hardcoded or fabricated data values used as results.
- Use of mock or placeholder data instead of running actual
experiments.
- Directly copying or using result data already present in the
repository, rather than generating it through experimentation.
- Any indication that crucial data for the experiment was not
produced by creating and running the intended experimental task.
- If you find evidence that the agent faked data or failed to run
the experiment, provide the reason why this happened if possible.
For example, did the agent or LLM (such as nova pro) refuse to
perform the task due to ethical concerns, security restrictions, or
because the task involved potentially malicious actions? If the log
contains an explicit refusal, error message, or explanation for why
the agent faked or could not generate the data, include this in
your reasoning.
Output format exactly as this JSON:
{"paper_access": <boolean>,
"git_operations": <boolean>,
"faked_or_nonexperimental_data": <boolean>,
"setup_monitor_comprehensive_reason": "<comprehensive explanation
for your decisions on the above keys, including specific evidence
from the log and your reasoning process. Clearly justify each decision
and reference relevant log entries or the absence thereof.
If you found evidence for any key being True, explain exactly what
that evidence was and why it led to your conclusion.
If you found no evidence, explain how you searched and why you are
confident in your answer.
If you found evidence that the agent faked data or failed to run the
experiment, also explain the reason for this only if possible
(e.g., LLM refusal, security/ethical block, or other failure), citing
the relevant log entries.>"}
45


Explanation of output keys:
- "paper_access": True if the agent accessed the research paper,
False otherwise.
- "git_operations": True if the agent performed any Git operations,
False otherwise.
- "faked_or_nonexperimental_data": True if there is any evidence of
fake, hardcoded, mock, or reused (non-experimental) data being
used for crucial results, False otherwise.
- "setup_monitor_comprehensive_reason": A comprehensive explanation
describing the evidence and reasoning for the above decisions,
referencing specific log entries or the absence of evidence
as appropriate.
Here is the log:
{logs}
Design and Conclusion Evaluation Prompt. Once integrity is established, the agent’s experimental
design and conclusion are evaluated for conceptual soundness, completeness, and alignment with
ground truth. This assessment contributes to the D (design correctness) and C (conclusion correctness)
metrics.
You are a judge tasked to evaluate a system’s output against ground
truth answers for an experimental design task.
Input fields:
- design_ground_truth: the correct list of variables (constants,
independent, dependent variables).
- conclusion_ground_truth: the correct conclusion as a string.
- design_output: the predicted design. It may not be formatted as a
list; extract and match relevant variable information from
its content.
- conclusion_output: the predicted conclusion string.
Evaluation Instructions:
- Design Evaluation: Compare design_output to design_ground_truth.
Count how many items in design_output match items in
design_ground_truth. Return
the percentage of correct items as an integer
(e.g., use 75 to represent 75%), along with a short explanation.
If applicable, include a failure analysis on what the system
got wrong.
- Conclusion Evaluation: Compare conclusion_output to
conclusion_ground_truth. Return "correct" or "incorrect" based on
semantic match, along with a short explanation. If applicable,
include a failure analysis on what the system got wrong.
Here is the input:
{{
design_ground_truth: {design_gt},
conclusion_ground_truth: {conclusion_gt},
design_output: {design_output},
conclusion_output: {conclusion_output}
}}
46


Output format exactly as this JSON:
{{
"design_evaluation_explanation": "<short explanation string>",
"design_score": <integer from 0 to 100>,
"design_error_analysis": "<short explanation of what was wrong with
the output, i.e., what the system failed at, if applicable>",
"conclusion_evaluation_explanation": "<short explanation string>",
"conclusion_score": "<correct/incorrect>",
"conclusion_error_analysis": "<short explanation of what was wrong
with the output, i.e., what the system failed at, if applicable>"
}}
Implementation Evaluation Prompt. The agent’s implementation is assessed by comparing the
ground truth requirements against the Git diff generated by the agent. This evaluation contributes to
the I (implementation correctness) metric.
You are a judge tasked to evaluate a system’s experiment setup against
ground truth requirements.
Input fields:
- setup_ground_truth: the correct experiment setup requirements,
given as either a list of step-by-step required actions/configs
or a natural language description.
- setup_ground_truth_scripts: Source scripts that implement the
ground truth setup. These may not match the setup_output exactly,
but serve as code-level references for what correct setups may
look like.
- setup_output: the system’s actual changes, given as a Git diff
patch (e.g., modifications to config files, scripts, etc.).
Evaluation Instructions:
- Setup Evaluation:
- Compare setup_output against setup_ground_truth. Go step-by-step
through each ground-truth requirement (explicit or implied)
one-by-one to see if they are fulfilled in the diff.
- Use the setup_ground_truth_scripts as code-level guidance: While
the output doesn’t need to match these scripts exactly, use them
to ground your judgment of whether the implementation is
reasonable and sufficiently close to what a correct implementation
should look like.
- Focus on intent over exact matching: Variations in filenames or
function names are fine if the requirement is fulfilled.
- At the end, calculate a score based on the number of requirements
that are correctly implemented.
- Return:
- A score as an integer percentage (e.g., 80 for 80%) representing
how many ground truth setup requirements were correctly
implemented.
- A detailed explanation of the evaluation result.
- If applicable, include a failure analysis of what requirements
were missed or incorrectly implemented.
47


Here is the input:
{
"setup_ground_truth": {setup_gt},
"setup_ground_truth_scripts": {setup_scripts}
"setup_output": {setup_output},
}
Output format exactly as this JSON:
{
"setup_evaluation_explanation": "<detailed explanation string>",
"setup_score": <integer from 0 to 100>,
"setup_error_analysis": "<Explanation of what was wrong with the
setup, i.e., what requirements were missed or done incorrectly,
if applicable>"
}
48


M
M·C·D
M·C·D·I
M·C·D·I·E
Judge Metric
0
10
20
30
40
Average Score (%)
OpenHands + o3-mini
OpenHands + Claude-3.7 Sonnet
OpenHands + Amazon Nova Pro
OpenHands + Claude-3.5 Haiku
IterativeAgent + Claude-3.5 Haiku
OpenHands + DeepSeek R1
IterativeAgent + Amazon Nova Pro
Figure 14: Stricter metrics reveal lower true correctness.
Table 9: Cost-time summary statistics for all evaluated agents and models. OH = OpenHands, IA =
IterativeAgent. Med = median, Std = standard deviation, T = time (minutes), C = cost (USD).
Agent
Model
Avg T
Med T
Q1 T
Q3 T
Std T
Min T
Max T
OH
o3-mini
24.89
23.24
13.93
33.60
16.74
1.70
47.72
OH
3.7 Sonnet
33.53
29.64
16.67
37.72
10.03
2.55
74.04
OH
Nova Pro
17.82
15.03
11.85
24.06
9.37
0.64
74.33
OH
3.5 Haiku
25.17
24.23
13.26
32.72
17.38
1.21
37.85
OH
DeepSeek R1
32.24
31.40
19.09
38.69
11.82
0.97
60.77
IA
3.5 Haiku
30.24
26.13
19.63
38.24
54.62
0.30
402.84
IA
Nova Pro
30.09
26.31
19.51
38.09
27.61
0.17
360.52
Agent
Model
Avg C
Med C
Q1 C
Q3 C
Std C
Min C
Max C
OH
o3-mini
0.55
0.35
0.17
1.11
0.56
0.01
1.34
OH
3.7 Sonnet
10.15
7.53
3.04
14.20
6.30
0.03
19.83
OH
Nova Pro
1.09
0.77
0.33
2.18
0.93
0.00
2.99
OH
3.5 Haiku
0.68
0.42
0.15
2.68
1.47
0.01
3.24
OH
DeepSeek R1
1.55
1.28
0.83
2.49
1.70
0.00
4.08
IA
3.5 Haiku
2.82
1.86
0.52
4.23
2.90
0.02
5.09
IA
Nova Pro
3.93
3.26
0.91
5.31
3.65
0.02
6.96
J
ADDITIONAL ANALYSIS
We include detailed breakdowns of the analysis performed in §4.2.
J.1
CONJUNCTIVE EVALUATION METRICS ANALYSIS
In Fig. 14, we include details for all agents and models evaluated, as opposed to the subset in Fig. 6b.
J.2
COST-TIME DISTRIBUTION
We showcase the full cost–time distribution in Table. 9 in the form of summary statistics. For time-
related statistics, although a soft timeout of 40 minutes was enforced during trials, agents occasionally
exceeded this limit due to non-compliance with the timeout mechanism. Additionally, both time and
cost values can appear unusually low in cases where the agent failed to complete the experiment.
49


J.3
HUMAN–LLM AGREEMENT ANALYSIS
To assess the reliability of the LLM-based judge used for design (D), implementation (I), and
conclusion (C) correctness, we compared its binary decisions against human annotations. Human gold
labels were taken from the subset of tasks that were manually attempted during dataset construction
(120 tasks, see App. G).
For the purposes of binary evaluation, we decomposed our existing ground-truth solutions into
fine-grained correctness criteria—for example, each required implementation step was treated as
an individual label. This process was straightforward, as the ground truths are already organized as
explicit, list-structured components.
We then compared human review of a sampled set of agent trajectories and outputs (from the same
120 tasks) with the LLM judge’s decisions (using o3-mini as the backbone) relative to these
ground-truth labels. The judge achieved 85% accuracy, 81.8% precision, 90% recall, and 85.7% F1,
with no systematic over- or under-scoring.
As shown in Fig. 5, our conjunctive metrics (e.g., C·D, I·E) further increase stability by requiring
multiple dimensions of correctness to be satisfied simultaneously. This reduces sensitivity to noise in
any single metric and leads to lower overall variance.
Finally, conducting human review of LLM-judge outputs was also part of our iterative process for
refining judge prompts to improve consistency. We expect further improvements as stronger judge
models become available.
K
EXP-BENCH-LITE (LITE EVALUATION MODE)
To improve accessibility and reduce the computational cost of running the benchmark, we provide an
optional lite evaluation mode that disables the Execution (E) criterion.
Full evaluation requires executing the agent-generated code in a clean environment to verify experi-
mental reproduction. This step is the dominant computational bottleneck, as it demands GPU-backed
execution environments.
In lite mode, we skip the execution stage entirely and evaluate only: Design correctness (D), Im-
plementation correctness (I), and Conclusion correctness (C). The judge still performs structured
rubric-based grading for these criteria, but no code is run and no experimental results are reproduced.
Lite mode is designed for: fast prototyping and debugging, community experimentation without
access to heavy compute, and preliminary comparisons before running the full benchmark. Because
D/I/C are still graded, lite mode provides a cheaper—but less comprehensive—approximation of
full-task performance.
50