REVEAL: SELF-EVOLVING CODE AGENTS VIA
RELIABLE SELF-VERIFICATION
Yiyang Jin2∗
Kunzhao Xu3∗
Hang Li1
Xueting Han1†
Yanmin Zhou2
Cheng Li3
Jing Bai1
1Microsoft Research Asia
2Tongji University
3University of Science and Technology of China
ABSTRACT
Reinforcement learning with verifiable rewards (RLVR) has advanced the rea-
soning capabilities of large language models. However, existing methods rely
solely on outcome rewards, without explicitly optimizing verification or leveraging
reliable signals from realistic environments, leading to unreliable self-verification
and limited test-time scaling. To address this, we widen the verification–generation
asymmetry by explicitly optimizing self-verification, making it a reliable driver
of deeper test-time scaling. We introduce ReVeal, a multi-turn Reinforcement
learning framework that evolves code generation through self-Verification and
tool-based evaluation. ReVeal structures long-horizon reasoning as iterative gener-
ation–verification turns and incorporates TAPO for turn-level credit assignment,
fostering the co-evolution of code and test generation. At inference, this strength-
ened self-verification enables the model to use self-constructed tests and tool
feedback to continuously evolve code for 20+ turns on LiveCodeBench despite
training on only three. It also significantly improves Pass@k, indicating stronger
exploration that expands the reasoning boundaries of the base model. These find-
ings highlight the promise of ReVeal as a scalable paradigm for RL training and
test-time scaling, paving the way for more robust and autonomous AI agents. Code
is available at https://ReVeal.github.io/.
38.7
(b)
(a)
Figure 1: Performance of ReVeal on LiveCodeBench V6. (a) ReVeal enables effective test-time
scaling, with Pass@1 accuracy improving from 34.8% at turn 1 to 38.7% at turn 25. (b) ReVeal
(max_turn=10) consistently outperforms both the base model and the RL baseline in Pass@k,
expanding the base model’s reasoning boundaries, which the RL baseline fails to achieve.
1
INTRODUCTION
Reinforcement learning with verifiable rewards (RLVR) has recently shown strong potential to
enhance the reasoning abilities of large language models (LLMs) (DeepSeek-AI et al., 2025; OpenAI).
∗Equal contribution. Work was done during the internship at MSRA.
†Project leader; Correspondence to: Xueting Han <chrihan@microsoft.com>.
1


A key factor behind this success is the emergence of reflection and self-verification, which allow
models to iteratively refine their reasoning. Recent analyses identify the verification-generation
asymmetry (i.e., easier to verify than to solve) as the underlying mechanism for these improvements
and a key driver of test-time scaling (Wei, 2025; Setlur et al., 2025). However, current RLVR methods
rely solely on outcome rewards without explicitly optimizing verification. This leads to unreliable
self-verification, where models often produce verbose, uninformative reflections or random guessing
on hard problems, and limits the effectiveness of test-time scaling: prior studies show that reasoning
performance plateaus once test-time compute exceeds the training horizon (Setlur et al., 2025).
Complex problem-solving, such as competitive programming, typically requires multiple iterations
of verification and revision rather than being solved in a single attempt, making accurate feedback
essential to guide refinement. This highlights the need for verification-driven multi-turn reasoning.
Prior work has attempted this either by training a separate critic model to assess each attempt—without
leveraging tool feedback and at the cost of added inference-time complexity (Xie et al., 2025)—or by
relying on execution feedback against pre-existing public tests, which are rarely available in real-world
scenarios (Gehring et al., 2025). As a result, these methods provide limited and non-generalizable
verification, leaving self-verification unreliable and limiting sustained improvement.
Accuracy (%)
15
35
55
75
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2
Verification Accuracy
Generation Accuracy
ReVeal Training                                         Test-time Scaling
Widened V-G gap via
explicit verification optimization 
Generation improves via
verification-driven scaling
ReVeal Widens V–G Asymmetry to Drive Test-time Scaling
Figure 2: ReVeal expands the V-G gap.
To address these limitations, we propose Re-
Veal, a multi-turn RL framework that explic-
itly optimizes self-verification, thereby widen-
ing the verification-generation (V-G) asymme-
try and fostering co-evolution of both capabil-
ities during training. This enables models at
inference to obtain reliable verification signals
from realistic environments and iteratively re-
fine their solutions, without needing to rely on
pre-existing tests. The widened V-G gap allows
verification to drive sustained improvements in
generation, ultimately enabling deeper test-time
scaling (Figure 2).
Concretely, ReVeal structures long-horizon reasoning into iterative generation and verification turns.
At each turn, the model generates candidate code and self-verifies its correctness by constructing test
cases and invoking external tools (e.g., a Python interpreter) for execution. This closed loop yields
actionable verification signals and fine-grained feedback, allowing the model to identify errors, revise
strategies, and progressively refine its output across turns. For training, we attach dense, turn-level
rewards that directly supervise both code quality and verification accuracy. To ensure robustness,
ReVeal employs a Turn-Aware Policy Optimization (TAPO) tailored for the generation-verification
interplay, assigning credit at the turn granularity and preventing reward gaming (e.g., generating trivial
code to hack verification rewards). Unlike outcome-only RL methods, ReVeal makes verification
itself an optimization target, turning verification signals into reliable drivers of improvement.
We evaluate ReVeal on the challenging LiveCodeBench benchmark (Jain et al., 2024). Notably,
despite being trained on only three reasoning turns, ReVeal sustains continuous refinement for over
20+ inference turns, showing robust extrapolation beyond its training horizon and tackling problems
previously unsolved. Furthermore, ReVeal significantly outperforms the base model in Pass@k by
leveraging verification signals and tool feedback to guide more effective exploration, achieving an
expansion of the underlying model’s reasoning boundaries that standard RL methods fail to reach.
These results validate ReVeal as not only a practical framework for self-evolving code agents, but
also as a general RL paradigm for tasks with verification-generation asymmetry, where explicitly
optimizing verification unlocks reliable long-horizon reasoning.
2
METHODS
2.1
REVEAL FRAMEWORK
2.1.1
ITERATIVE GENERATION–VERIFICATION LOOP
ReVeal organizes long-horizon reasoning into an interleaved generation-verification loop with tool
execution feedback, where verification itself is explicitly optimized to provide reliable signals for
2


multi-turn refinement. As illustrated in Figure 3, we use a single policy for both generation and
verification to reduce system complexity and cost and to enable cross-capability transfer, so that
solutions and their verification strategies co-evolve under a shared training scheme. In the code-
generation setting, generation produces candidate code, whereas verification synthesizes and executes
tests to assess correctness. Fine-grained feedback from tool execution (e.g., Python interpreter) is
appended to the rollout and conditions the next turn. The loop continues until a valid solution is found
or a turn budget K is reached, enabling progressive refinement without external critics or predefined
test cases.
Input Prompt
Question
Policy LLM
Python 
Interpreter
<Generation> Code
<Verification> Test Cases
<Tool> Feedback
<Generation> Code
<Verification> Test Cases
Output Rollout
<Generation> Code
<Verification> Test Cases
Turn 1
<Tool> Feedback
<Generation> Code
<Verification> Test Cases
Turn N
<Tool> Feedback
……
Memorize
Incorrect
Correct
Generation1
Verification1
Tool1
[Masked]
……
Prompt
Generation2
Verification2
Tool2
[Masked]
ToolN
[Masked]
𝑅𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑒
𝑅𝑣𝑒𝑟
1
𝑅𝑔𝑒𝑛
2
𝑅𝑔𝑒𝑛
1
𝑅𝑣𝑒𝑟
2
𝑅𝑔𝑒𝑛
3
Outcome Reward
Turn-Level Rewards
(a) Generation–Verification Loop with Tool Feedback
(b) TAPO with Joint Verifiable Rewards
Memory
Retrieve
Figure 3: Illustration of ReVeal. (a) Iterative generation-verification loop with tool feedback. (b)
TAPO with joint verifiable rewards: outcome, generation, and verification rewards.
Table 4 illustrates a multi-turn rollout under ReVeal’s structured prompting, which decouples gener-
ation, verification, and tool feedback into distinct segments. At each turn, the policy first reasons
thoroughly and explores diverse reasoning patterns freely, then emits structured outputs: executable
code in <generation-answer> and executable tests in <verification-answer>. As
shown in the case study, after producing candidate code the model begins verification: it hypothesizes
potential failure modes and edge conditions to propose diverse test cases. The <tool-feedback>
section then records execution results, including runtime errors, invalid test cases, as well as the
expected output, actual output, and pass/fail judgment for each valid test case. Based on this feedback,
the model interprets traces and error messages, diagnoses underlying causes, and adjusts both its
candidate code and its verification plan in the next turn. Full prompting and feedback templates are
provided in Tables 5 and 6.
2.1.2
TOOL-AUGMENTED VERIFICATION
The interaction with external tools provides reliable, fine-grained supervisory signals that condition
subsequent reasoning and enable systematic refinement of both code and verification strategies across
turns. More importantly, tool interaction broadens exploration during reinforcement learning by
revealing concrete failure modes, steering the policy into promising regions of the search space
beyond a single attempt and helping it escape local optima. Empirically (see §3.3), this yields
consistently higher Pass@k than the base model.
During RL training, the <tool-feedback> section is excluded from the loss and used only as
contextual input, which stabilizes optimization while preserving coherent multi-turn rollouts. To
ensure feedback quality during training, we adopt a filtering mechanism: model-generated test cases
are executed on candidate code only if they are verified against a golden solution. This guarantees that
execution traces provide legitimate supervision, thereby improving feedback precision and guiding
exploration toward correct solutions. At test time, no golden reference is available; all generated
3


test cases are executed, making verification fully autonomous. This places a strong demand on
the model’s ability to generate high-quality tests. To meet this demand, ReVeal adopts a novel RL
algorithm that incentivizes diverse and reliable test construction.
2.2
TURN-AWARE RL FOR THE GENERATION-VERIFICATION PARADIGM
Prior RLVR methods rely on outcome-only signals to optimize an entire long reasoning trace, but this
provides imprecise credit to intermediate verification and often degenerates into blind reflection. Yet
one may ask: can the current paradigm fully sustain reliable verification and deeper test-time scaling?
Verification, however, is a non-trivial task: with well-designed verifiable rewards, a task can often
be solved effectively. This motivates ReVeal to explicitly optimize verification with hard-to-hack
rewards, which widen the verification-generation gap. At test time, this asymmetry becomes an asset:
easier and more reliable verification signals can effectively guide the harder generation process to
evolve over many turns.
2.2.1
JOINT VERIFIABLE REWARDS
To jointly train generation and verification, ReVeal decomposes the reward into three complementary
components (Fig. 3b): an outcome reward supervising the final solution, a generation reward
capturing improvements across generation turns, and a verification reward evaluating the quality of
generated tests. This design naturally links the two roles in a co-evolutionary loop.
Outcome reward. The outcome reward shapes the entire reasoning chain by the final solution
quality:
routcome = rformat + rpassrate,
(1)
where the format reward rformat ensures that the model produces well-formed generation and verifi-
cation blocks,
rformat =
1,
if the output format is correct,
−1,
otherwise,
(2)
and rpassrate = 5 × passrate measures final code accuracy with passrate ∈[0, 1], giving routcome ∈
[−1, 6]. The format reward ensures that the output follows the prescribed generation-turn and
verification-turn tags, so that we can reliably identify each turn and assign the correct turn-level
reward, and that the code and test-case blocks satisfy the required format, allowing us to reliably
extract code and tests for tool execution.
Generation reward. For each generation turn k (odd), we compute the pass rate rk
passrate of the code
produced and define:
rk
gen =
(r1
passrate,
k = 1,
abs · rk
passrate + imp ·
 rk
passrate −rk−2
passrate

,
k ≥3,
where abs and imp weight absolute accuracy and iterative improvement. We set abs = 0, imp = 1
so that the reward encourages real improvements in code accuracy across turns.
Verification reward. For each verification turn k (even), we reward the proportion of generated tests
that succeed when executed on a golden code:
rk
ver = #{test cases in turn k that pass}
#{test cases generated in turn k}.
(3)
2.2.2
TURN-AWARE POLICY OPTIMIZATION
Preliminaries.
Our algorithm builds on the Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) framework (Schul-
man et al., 2017), an on-policy actor-critic method that optimizes a clipped surrogate objective
for stable updates. PPO typically estimates token-level advantages using Generalized Advantage
Estimation (GAE) (Schulman et al., 2018):
ˆAGAE(γ,λ)
t
=
∞
X
l=0
(γλ)l rt+l + γVt+l+1 −Vt+l

,
(4)
where γ ∈[0, 1] is the discount factor and λ ∈[0, 1] controls the bias-variance trade-off.
4


Turn-Aware Policy Optimization.
Building on our structured reward design, we introduce Turn-
Aware Policy Optimization (TAPO), which preserves the PPO actor-critic framework but only modifies
the advantage estimator: instead of the standard GAE-based advantages, TAPO uses a turn-aware
return to construct the advantage estimates. TAPO leverages the critic to efficiently bootstrap from
both token-level Monte Carlo returns and turn-level returns, enabling stable learning across these two
reward granularities.
1. Token-level return. We set λ = 1 and γ = 1 (pure Monte Carlo). For a response of length T, we
define the token-level rewards as rT = routcome and rt = 0 for all t < T. For token step t:
Rt =
T −t
X
l=0
rt+l = rt + Rt+1,
RT +1 = 0.
(5)
2. Turn-level return. To mitigate adversarial reward gaming (e.g., generating trivial code that
hacks the verification reward), we introduce a turn-level return tailored to the generation-verification
interplay. Specifically, (i) each generation reward is assigned both to its own generation turn and to
the immediately preceding verification turn, and (ii) each verification reward is confined strictly to
its own verification turn. This design prevents reward hacking by ensuring that generation turns are
rewarded solely based on code quality, rather than verification success. Let {t1, . . . , tK} denote the
token indices at which each turn ends (alternating generation and verification), and define:
Rturn(tk) =
(
rk
gen,
if turn k is generation,
rk
ver + Rturn(tk+1),
if turn k is verification,
Rturn(tK+1) = 0.
(6)
For token t, let τ(t) = min{tk | tk ≥t} and define
Rturn
t
=
Rturn τ(t)

,
if τ(t) exists,
0,
otherwise.
(7)
3. Turn-aware return. The final return combines the two levels:
eRt = Rt + Rturn
t
,
At = eRt −Vt,
(8)
where Vt is the critic model’s estimate at step t. These advantages At then replace the standard GAE
estimates in the PPO objective, completing the TAPO update.
Discussion.
TAPO provides sharper supervision than outcome-only methods by explicitly assigning
credit at both token and turn levels. It integrates outcome rewards, which keep the process aligned
with final correctness, and turn-level signals, which provide dense supervision for progressive
refinement. This structure establishes a feedback loop: stronger tests expose errors that drive code
improvements, which are then reinforced by the generation reward, while improved code raises the
bar for verification, pushing the model to generate richer and more challenging tests. By design,
TAPO prevents reward gaming and turns this loop into stable co-evolution of code and tests. Crucially,
TAPO is a general credit-assignment algorithm, applicable to any reasoning task with verifiable
rewards for both generation and verification.
3
EXPERIMENTS
3.1
SETTINGS
Dataset
We construct our training dataset from TACO (Li et al., 2023), a large-scale corpus
comprising 26,443 algorithmic programming problems sourced from competitive programming
platforms such as LeetCode (LLC, 2015) and Codeforces (Codeforces, 2025). Each problem consists
of a natural language description, golden solutions, and multiple test cases.
To address noise in the raw dataset, we first filter out problems containing unsupported content types,
specifically those tagged with interactive or image elements. To ensure testability and correctness,
we process two types of test case format, function-based tests and standard input/output tests, into a
unified structure compatible with our code execution environment. We then execute each test case
against the first available golden solution in our execution environment. Problems where the golden
code fails to pass all associated test cases are discarded. After preprocessing, we retain a high-quality
dataset of 11,151 problems for training and 509 problems for testing.
5


Table 1: Performance comparison of ReVeal with baseline methods on LiveCodeBench V6 and
CodeContests. Pass@1 indicates the success rate; ∆↑and ∆↓represent the percentages of incorrect
solutions corrected and correct solutions degraded after revision, respectively.
Model
LiveCodeBench V6
CodeContests
Pass@1
∆↑
∆↓
Pass@1
∆↑
∆↓
Existing Baselines
Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct
24.8
-
-
13.3
-
-
DAPO-Qwen-32B
31.1
-
-
18.5
-
-
Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct
29.5
-
-
14.6
-
-
w/ critic×5 Qwen2.5-Coder
29.6
2.14
3.04
-
-
-
w/ critic×5 GPT-4o
32.9
4.82
2.50
-
-
-
w/ critic×5 CTRL
33.4
3.75
0.89
-
-
-
RL based on DAPO-Qwen-32B
Single-turn RL
32.8
-
-
21.0
-
-
ReVeal×25
38.7
7.50
0.0
33.6
15.69
0.0
Ablation Study: TAPO with Joint Verifiable Rewards
ReVeal×8 w/ outcome reward
36.1
4.69
1.32
27.4
9.24
2.36
ReVeal×8 w/ TAPO with joint rewards
37.7
5.62
0.0
30.4
12.30
0.0
Models and Training Details
We adopt DAPO-Qwen-32B (Yu et al., 2025) as our base model,
which is reinforced with mathematical data, and we continue RL training on code datasets to adapt
its reasoning capabilities to coding tasks. Our models are trained using Verl (Sheng et al., 2024)
framework on 8/16 AMD Mi300x GPUs. The RL training process follows the hyperparameter
settings listed in Table 2.We set the maximum number of turns to 3 during RL training.
Evaluation
We evaluate ReVeal on two code-generation benchmarks: LiveCodeBench (LCB) V6
(2025.02–2025.05) (Jain et al., 2024) and CodeContests (Li et al., 2022). The evaluation process
follows the hyperparameter configuration specified in Table 3. Although training is performed with a
maximum of 3 turns, we evaluate the model under extended turn settings (8 and 25 turns) to assess its
generalization to longer reasoning horizons and test-time scaling performance.
We use Pass@1 to measure the success rate of the model’s final code solutions. To evaluate the model’s
verification and self-correction capabilities, we introduce two additional metrics: ∆↑denotes the
fraction of initially incorrect solutions that become correct after revision, and ∆↓denotes the fraction
of initially correct solutions that become incorrect after revision. In line with recent work (Yue et al.,
2025), we use Pass@k up to k = 128 to assess whether ReVeal can push the reasoning boundaries
beyond the base model, with at most 10 generation–verification turns per example.
Memory Mechanism for Context Management
To improve inference efficiency under extended
multi-turn rollouts, we use a short-term memory mechanism that retains only the last three turns as
context, which prevents excessive context growth without hurting accuracy (detail in Appendix C).
Code Execution Tool
We use Code Judge1 as our code execution environment. Code Judge supports
both function-based and standard input-output test case formats through a consistent interface.
Designed for scalability and robustness, it enables efficient long-batch execution through multi-
processing and provides reliable code evaluation.
Baselines
We compare ReVeal against following baselines: (1) Base: base models without
code-specific RL training; (2) CTRL (Xie et al., 2025) + Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct: five-turn
critic–revision with a dedicated critic model; results cited from the original paper (evaluated on
LCB 24.08–24.11); (3) Single-turn RL with outcome reward: RL with outcome-only rewards under
standard <think>-<answer> prompting template without any external tool calls.
1https://github.com/0xWJ/code-judge
6


3.2
MAIN RESULTS
Table 1 shows that single-turn RL (outcome-only, no explicit optimization of self-verification or
tool use) improves Pass@1 over the base models. ReVeal goes further by explicitly optimizing
verification and enabling deeper inference, it surpasses the single-turn RL baseline by a wide margin.
Beyond deeper-turn gains, ReVeal also achieves higher Pass@1 at turn 1 (34.8%) than the single-turn
RL baseline under equal inference budget on LCB V6, indicating that multi-turn training (3 turns)
transfers exploration benefits into a stronger policy and that increasing training depth may further
amplify gains.
ReVeal significantly outperforms critic-based methods such as CTRL. While critic models tailored
for code tasks can be paired with policy models for multi-turn critique and revision, ReVeal employs
a single policy model that self-verifies and iteratively refines its own outputs, yet achieves superior
results, highlighting the benefit of jointly optimizing generation and verification. Specifically, ReVeal
attains larger correction rates with near-zero degradation, demonstrating highly robust and reliable
capabilities in self-verification, critique, and revision. (CTRL numbers are cited from earlier LCB
version; see Table 7 for a V5 comparison on Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct.)
Ablation studies confirm the benefit of TAPO with joint verifiable rewards: at the same turn budget
it yields higher Pass@1, increases ∆↑, and suppresses ∆↓compared to outcome-only training. In
contrast, outcome-only rewards exhibit higher ∆↓, indicating that insufficiently optimized verification
can drive incorrect revisions.
Extended Evaluations and Analyses.
To validate the effectiveness and scalability across models,
we evaluate ReVeal on another base model, Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct. The detailed results are in
Appendix D (see Table 7 and Figure 5). ReVeal outperforms the single-turn RL baseline by 4.1%,
which demonstrates the effectiveness of ReVeal. To demonstrate that the performance improvements
are statistically significant, we repeat the experiment 8 times and report the mean ± std in the
Appendix Table 8. Across models of varying capability, ReVeal remains effective. With the stronger
DAPO-Qwen-32B backbone, ReVeal unlocks greater headroom: accuracy continues to improve with
deeper inference turns and surpasses outcome-only RL by a wider margin. This underscores ReVeal’s
potential on stronger backbones.
To further validate the generalizability of ReVeal and the specific contributions of its components, we
provide extensive additional evaluations and analyses in Appendices E to K. Specifically, evaluations
on Qwen3-4B-Instruct demonstrate ReVeal’s effectiveness on smaller model scales and analyze the
impact of varying training horizons (Appendix E, H). We also provide ablations to decouple the
gains from our multi-turn framework versus RL training (Appendix F) and analyze the TAPO reward
components (Appendix G). Beyond the main results, ReVeal’s robust performance is confirmed on
additional benchmarks like HumanEval+ and MBPP+ (Appendix I). Furthermore, a gradient-based
incentive analysis for TAPO is provided in Appendix J. Finally, we discuss the current limitations
and future directions in Appendix K.
3.3
ANALYSIS
ReVeal Enables Test-time Scaling into Deeper Inference Regimes.
As shown in Figure 1 (a),
ReVeal enables effective test-time scaling through iterative generation and verification. Although
the model is trained with a maximum of three reasoning turns, it continues to improve its solutions
when more turns are allowed at inference time, leading to progressively higher code accuracy. For
instance, Pass@1 increases from 34.8% at turn 1 to 36.7% at turn 3, and further rises to 38.7% by turn
25 for LiveCodeBench. This compellingly demonstrates how reliable self-verification and iterative
environment feedback can enable compute scaling into deeper inference regimes, allowing ReVeal to
solve previously intractable problems and evolve novel solutions. As a result, ReVeal supports self-
improvement beyond the training horizon, enabling strong generalization in long-horizon reasoning
during inference. Furthermore, these newly discovered solutions can be distilled back into the code
LLM to further enhance its reasoning capabilities through continued training.
ReVeal Pushes Beyond the Reasoning Boundaries of the Base Model.
We compare DAPO-
Qwen-32B and single-turn RL baseline with ReVeal using Pass@k metrics on LiveCodeBench. As
shown in Figure 1 (b), the RL baseline outperforms the base model when k < 32, but its performance
7


(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Figure 4: Training curves for (a) first-turn code accuracy, (b) last-turn code accuracy, (c) mean
response length, and (d) last-turn test-case accuracy across three training methods. Note on (b): the
dip before step 40 is due to expanded evaluation coverage: as format score reaches 0.9 around step 40,
more problems enter the evaluation set, temporarily lowering accuracy.
gain gradually diminishes as k increases. In contrast, ReVeal consistently outperforms both the base
model and the RL baseline across all k values from 1 to 128, demonstrating its ability to surpass the
reasoning boundaries beyond the base model. We attribute this improvement to ReVeal’s verification-
driven exploration: tool-assisted verification provides targeted, execution-based feedback and precise
judgments that guide the model to explore better solutions more effectively. With this enhanced
exploration capability, the model continually self-evolves and grows beyond its initial reasoning
capability during RL training. We believe this approach offers a promising path towards developing
self-evolving agents with stronger reasoning capabilities.
ReVeal Co-evolves the Model’s Generation and Verification Capabilities.
Figure 4(b, d) il-
lustrates the co-evolution of the model’s code and test case generation capabilities. As shown in
Figure 4(b), once the format is learned, final code accuracy steadily improves during training and
significantly surpasses the single-turn RL baseline. Moreover, comparing Figure 4(a) and (b) reveals
that final solutions consistently outperform those generated at Turn 1, with the performance gap
widening over time. This trend indicates that as the model’s verification ability strengthens, multi-turn
refinement enables the exploration of better solutions, progressively enhancing its capacity to generate
and refine code. After the format is learned, test-case accuracy rises substantially from about 50%
at step 40 to nearly 88%, as shown in Figure 4 (d). Additionally, for correctly generated test cases,
the model achieves over 85% accuracy in judging code correctness. This demonstrates that during
inference, the model can reliably generate valid test cases and effectively leverage the tool to produce
accurate verification signals, which are critical for continuous improvements in code quality. These
results provide strong evidence that ReVeal jointly and effectively optimizes both generation and
verification, enabling the model to evolve its reasoning capabilities throughout training.
The Effectiveness of TAPO with Joint Verifiable Rewards.
As shown in Table 1, TAPO with joint
rewards further enhances multi-turn performance compared to relying solely on outcome rewards. The
training curves in Figure 4(a,b) show TAPO with joint rewards achieves more stable and consistent
per-turn code gains, and Figure 4(d) shows it achieves higher test-case accuracy, indicating that
explicitly optimizing verification yields higher-quality tests and more effective reasoning in code
generation task. These benefits amplify in longer-sequence and harder verification scenarios. On the
stronger DAPO-Qwen-32B backbone with longer chains, dense turn-level supervision yields larger
gains than on Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct with much shorter chains (see Table 7 and Figure 5). This is
because outcome-only signals are too coarse for extremely long chains, providing imprecise credit
to intermediate verification steps. Furthermore, in more challenging verification scenarios, such
8


fine-grained supervision becomes increasingly essential, offering richer learning signals to enhance
the model’s verification capabilities.
4
RELATED WORK
4.1
TOOL-AUGMENTED REASONING
Recent advances in post-training for LLMs have led to substantial progress in improving reasoning
capabilities (Chen et al., 2025b;a). Among these efforts, tool-augmented approaches enables large
language models (LLMs) to leverage external tools, such as search engines or code interpreters, to
overcome inherent limitations in domain knowledge and mathematical operations. Early approaches
demonstrated the benefits of tool integration via prompt engineering (Yao et al., 2023; Chen et al.,
2023; Shinn et al., 2023) and supervised fine-tuning (Gou et al., 2024). ReAct (Yao et al., 2023) and
Reflexion (Shinn et al., 2023) interleave reasoning with acting or verbal self-critique to iteratively
refine solutions under tool access. These approaches highlight the value of interactive signals, but
they typically rely on prompt heuristics. More recently, multi-turn RL has been adopted to further
enhance this capability on various reasoning tasks (Jin et al., 2025; Feng et al., 2025; Li et al., 2025).
For example, Search-R1 (Jin et al., 2025) incorporates multi-turn interactions with a search engine to
retrieve relevant contextual information during RL training. ReTool (Feng et al., 2025) and ToRL (Li
et al., 2025) enable multi-turn code execution to support mathematical reasoning. Building on the
promising potential of tool-integrated RL, Agent-R1 (Ouyang et al., 2025) introduces an open-source
RL framework capable of supporting multi-turn, customization tool invocations.
Despite their effectiveness, most tool-augmented RL methods are predominantly outcome-driven: they
rely on task success or failure as the sole training signal and do not explicitly optimize verification or
assign credit across turns. Likewise, prompt-only agents lack turn-level, verifiable supervision, which
can make self-verification unreliable on harder problems and limit sustained test-time improvement.
Unlike prior tool-augmented works, ReVeal treats verification itself as a first-class optimization target
alongside generation, and introduces Turn-Aware Policy Optimization rewards (TAPO) to provide
fine-grained credit to both generation and verification turns. Our approach and prior tool-augmented
methods are orthogonal and complementary, and can be naturally combined to further enhance
reasoning capability.
4.2
SELF-VERIFICATION OF LLMS
Enabling LLMs to iteratively refine their outputs is critical for enhancing their reasoning capabilities.
However, LLMs typically lack reliable self-judgment (Huang et al., 2024). One common solution
is to introduce a separate critic model to verify the output of the policy model (Zhang et al., 2025;
Xie et al., 2025). For example, CTRL (Xie et al., 2025) uses RL to train a critic model for code
completion tasks. Although effective, these approaches incur the cost and complexity of maintaining
and coordinating two distinct models.
An alternative strategy is to enable one single model to generate outputs and self-verify them. In
mathematical reasoning, (Xiong et al., 2025) synthesizes long chains of thought that incorporate
"self-reward" and "self-correction" signals as seed data for supervised fine-tuning, and then further
enhances this ability via RL. In the code domain, execution feedback effectively verifies code
correctness and provides useful information for fixing errors. RLEF (Gehring et al., 2025) performs
multi-turn code generation and verification with an integrated code execution tool; however, it
depends on publicly available test cases, limiting its applicability.
In contrast, ReVeal advances self-verification by having the model generate its own high-quality test
cases on the fly. By explicitly crafting and executing these tests, ReVeal eliminates the dependency
on pre-existing test suites and improves applicability to real-world software systems.
5
CONCLUSION
We presented REVEAL, a multi-turn reinforcement learning (RL) framework that makes verification a
first-class optimization target alongside generation and organizes long reasoning chains into iterative
generation–verification turns with tool feedback. Using TAPO with joint verifiable rewards, REVEAL
9


equips LLMs with strong verification capabilities and demonstrates the surprising power of enabling
code LLMs to self-evolve—both during RL training, where it pushes boundaries beyond the base
model, and at test time, where multi-turn generation and verification continually refine outputs, even
up to 20+ inference turns. This compellingly demonstrates that REVEAL can enable compute scaling
into deeper inference regimes, allowing it to solve previously intractable problems and evolve novel
solutions. Furthermore, these newly discovered solutions can be distilled back into the code LLM to
further enhance its reasoning capabilities through continued training.
Although we demonstrate REVEAL on code tasks, its general concept of generation–verification,
TAPO, and turn-level reward design can be applied to any domain with verifiable rewards for both
generation and verification and that exhibits verification asymmetry, offering a promising blueprint
for future advances in self-improving, more robust, and autonomous AI agents.
10


REFERENCES
Liang Chen, Xueting Han, Li Shen, Jing Bai, and Kam-Fai Wong. Beyond two-stage training:
Cooperative sft and rl for llm reasoning, 2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.
06948.
Liang Chen, Xueting Han, Qizhou Wang, Bo Han, Jing Bai, Hinrich Schutze, and Kam-Fai Wong.
Eepo: Exploration-enhanced policy optimization via sample-then-forget, 2025b. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2510.05837.
Wenhu Chen, Xueguang Ma, Xinyi Wang, and William W. Cohen. Program of thoughts prompting:
Disentangling computation from reasoning for numerical reasoning tasks, 2023. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2211.12588.
Codeforces.
Codeforces - competitive programming platform, 2025.
URL https://
codeforces.com/. Accessed: 2025-03-18.
DeepSeek-AI, Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu,
Qihao Zhu, Shirong Ma, Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, Xiaokang Zhang, Xingkai Yu, Yu Wu, Z. F. Wu,
Zhibin Gou, Zhihong Shao, Zhuoshu Li, Ziyi Gao, Aixin Liu, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang, Bochao
Wu, Bei Feng, Chengda Lu, Chenggang Zhao, Chengqi Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan,
Damai Dai, Deli Chen, Dongjie Ji, Erhang Li, Fangyun Lin, Fucong Dai, Fuli Luo, Guangbo Hao,
Guanting Chen, Guowei Li, H. Zhang, Han Bao, Hanwei Xu, Haocheng Wang, Honghui Ding,
Huajian Xin, Huazuo Gao, Hui Qu, Hui Li, Jianzhong Guo, Jiashi Li, Jiawei Wang, Jingchang
Chen, Jingyang Yuan, Junjie Qiu, Junlong Li, J. L. Cai, Jiaqi Ni, Jian Liang, Jin Chen, Kai Dong,
Kai Hu, Kaige Gao, Kang Guan, Kexin Huang, Kuai Yu, Lean Wang, Lecong Zhang, Liang Zhao,
Litong Wang, Liyue Zhang, Lei Xu, Leyi Xia, Mingchuan Zhang, Minghua Zhang, Minghui Tang,
Meng Li, Miaojun Wang, Mingming Li, Ning Tian, Panpan Huang, Peng Zhang, Qiancheng Wang,
Qinyu Chen, Qiushi Du, Ruiqi Ge, Ruisong Zhang, Ruizhe Pan, Runji Wang, R. J. Chen, R. L.
Jin, Ruyi Chen, Shanghao Lu, Shangyan Zhou, Shanhuang Chen, Shengfeng Ye, Shiyu Wang,
Shuiping Yu, Shunfeng Zhou, Shuting Pan, S. S. Li, Shuang Zhou, Shaoqing Wu, Shengfeng
Ye, Tao Yun, Tian Pei, Tianyu Sun, T. Wang, Wangding Zeng, Wanjia Zhao, Wen Liu, Wenfeng
Liang, Wenjun Gao, Wenqin Yu, Wentao Zhang, W. L. Xiao, Wei An, Xiaodong Liu, Xiaohan
Wang, Xiaokang Chen, Xiaotao Nie, Xin Cheng, Xin Liu, Xin Xie, Xingchao Liu, Xinyu Yang,
Xinyuan Li, Xuecheng Su, Xuheng Lin, X. Q. Li, Xiangyue Jin, Xiaojin Shen, Xiaosha Chen,
Xiaowen Sun, Xiaoxiang Wang, Xinnan Song, Xinyi Zhou, Xianzu Wang, Xinxia Shan, Y. K. Li,
Y. Q. Wang, Y. X. Wei, Yang Zhang, Yanhong Xu, Yao Li, Yao Zhao, Yaofeng Sun, Yaohui Wang,
Yi Yu, Yichao Zhang, Yifan Shi, Yiliang Xiong, Ying He, Yishi Piao, Yisong Wang, Yixuan Tan,
Yiyang Ma, Yiyuan Liu, Yongqiang Guo, Yuan Ou, Yuduan Wang, Yue Gong, Yuheng Zou, Yujia
He, Yunfan Xiong, Yuxiang Luo, Yuxiang You, Yuxuan Liu, Yuyang Zhou, Y. X. Zhu, Yanhong
Xu, Yanping Huang, Yaohui Li, Yi Zheng, Yuchen Zhu, Yunxian Ma, Ying Tang, Yukun Zha,
Yuting Yan, Z. Z. Ren, Zehui Ren, Zhangli Sha, Zhe Fu, Zhean Xu, Zhenda Xie, Zhengyan Zhang,
Zhewen Hao, Zhicheng Ma, Zhigang Yan, Zhiyu Wu, Zihui Gu, Zijia Zhu, Zijun Liu, Zilin Li,
Ziwei Xie, Ziyang Song, Zizheng Pan, Zhen Huang, Zhipeng Xu, Zhongyu Zhang, and Zhen
Zhang. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learning, 2025.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12948.
Jiazhan Feng, Shijue Huang, Xingwei Qu, Ge Zhang, Yujia Qin, Baoquan Zhong, Chengquan Jiang,
Jinxin Chi, and Wanjun Zhong. Retool: Reinforcement learning for strategic tool use in llms, 2025.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.11536.
Jonas Gehring, Kunhao Zheng, Jade Copet, Vegard Mella, Quentin Carbonneaux, Taco Cohen, and
Gabriel Synnaeve. Rlef: Grounding code llms in execution feedback with reinforcement learning,
2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.02089.
Zhibin Gou, Zhihong Shao, Yeyun Gong, Yelong Shen, Yujiu Yang, Minlie Huang, Nan Duan, and
Weizhu Chen. Tora: A tool-integrated reasoning agent for mathematical problem solving, 2024.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.17452.
Jie Huang, Xinyun Chen, Swaroop Mishra, Huaixiu Steven Zheng, Adams Wei Yu, Xinying Song,
and Denny Zhou. Large language models cannot self-correct reasoning yet, 2024. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2310.01798.
11


Naman Jain, King Han, Alex Gu, Wen-Ding Li, Fanjia Yan, Tianjun Zhang, Sida Wang, Armando
Solar-Lezama, Koushik Sen, and Ion Stoica. Livecodebench: Holistic and contamination free
evaluation of large language models for code, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.
07974.
Bowen Jin, Hansi Zeng, Zhenrui Yue, Jinsung Yoon, Sercan Arik, Dong Wang, Hamed Zamani, and
Jiawei Han. Search-r1: Training llms to reason and leverage search engines with reinforcement
learning, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.09516.
Rongao Li, Jie Fu, Bo-Wen Zhang, Tao Huang, Zhihong Sun, Chen Lyu, Guang Liu, Zhi Jin, and
Ge Li. Taco: Topics in algorithmic code generation dataset, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2312.14852.
Xuefeng Li, Haoyang Zou, and Pengfei Liu. Torl: Scaling tool-integrated rl, 2025. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2503.23383.
Yujia Li, David Choi, Junyoung Chung, Nate Kushman, Julian Schrittwieser, Rémi Leblond, Tom
Eccles, James Keeling, Felix Gimeno, Agustin Dal Lago, Thomas Hubert, Peter Choy, Cyprien
de Masson d’Autume, Igor Babuschkin, Xinyun Chen, Po-Sen Huang, Johannes Welbl, Sven Gowal,
Alexey Cherepanov, James Molloy, Daniel Mankowitz, Esme Sutherland Robson, Pushmeet Kohli,
Nando de Freitas, Koray Kavukcuoglu, and Oriol Vinyals. Competition-level code generation with
alphacode. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.07814, 2022.
Jiawei Liu, Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yuyao Wang, and Lingming Zhang. Is your code generated by
chatgpt really correct? rigorous evaluation of large language models for code generation. Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:21558–21572, 2023.
LeetCode LLC. Leetcode: Online coding platform for technical interview preparation, 2015. URL
https://leetcode.com/. Accessed: 2025-05-16.
OpenAI. Learning to reason with llms.
urlhttps://openai.com/index/learning-to-reason-with-llms/. Accessed: 15 March 2025.
Jie Ouyang, Ruiran Yan, Yucong Luo, Mingyue Cheng, Qi Liu, Zirui Liu, Shuo Yu, and Daoyu
Wang. Training powerful llm agents with end-to-end reinforcement learning, 2025. URL https:
//github.com/0russwest0/Agent-R1.
John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal policy
optimization algorithms, 2017. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.06347.
John Schulman, Philipp Moritz, Sergey Levine, Michael Jordan, and Pieter Abbeel. High-dimensional
continuous control using generalized advantage estimation, 2018. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/1506.02438.
Amrith Setlur, Matthew Y. R. Yang, Charlie Snell, Jeremy Greer, Ian Wu, Virginia Smith, Max
Simchowitz, and Aviral Kumar. e3: Learning to explore enables extrapolation of test-time compute
for llms, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.09026.
Guangming Sheng, Chi Zhang, Zilingfeng Ye, Xibin Wu, Wang Zhang, Ru Zhang, Yanghua Peng,
Haibin Lin, and Chuan Wu. Hybridflow: A flexible and efficient rlhf framework. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.19256, 2024.
Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Edward Berman, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu
Yao. Reflexion: Language agents with verbal reinforcement learning, 2023.
Jason Wei. Asymmetry of verification and the verifier’s law. https://www.jasonwei.net/
blog/asymmetry-of-verification-and-verifiers-law, 2025.
Zhihui Xie, Jie chen, Liyu Chen, Weichao Mao, Jingjing Xu, and Lingpeng Kong. Teaching language
models to critique via reinforcement learning, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.
03492.
12


Wei Xiong, Hanning Zhang, Chenlu Ye, Lichang Chen, Nan Jiang, and Tong Zhang.
Self-
rewarding correction for mathematical reasoning, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2502.19613.
An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang
Gao, Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, Chujie Zheng, Dayiheng Liu, Fan Zhou, Fei Huang, Feng Hu,
Hao Ge, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jialong Tang, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin
Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jing Zhou, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, Keqin Bao, Kexin Yang,
Le Yu, Lianghao Deng, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Mingze Li, Pei Zhang, Peng Wang, Qin Zhu, Rui
Men, Ruize Gao, Shixuan Liu, Shuang Luo, Tianhao Li, Tianyi Tang, Wenbiao Yin, Xingzhang
Ren, Xinyu Wang, Xinyu Zhang, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan, Yang Su, Yichang Zhang, Yinger
Zhang, Yu Wan, Yuqiong Liu, Zekun Wang, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, Zhipeng Zhou, and Zihan
Qiu. Qwen3 technical report, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.09388.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao.
React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models, 2023. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2210.03629.
Qiying Yu, Zheng Zhang, Ruofei Zhu, Yufeng Yuan, Xiaochen Zuo, Yu Yue, Tiantian Fan, Gaohong
Liu, Lingjun Liu, Xin Liu, Haibin Lin, Zhiqi Lin, Bole Ma, Guangming Sheng, Yuxuan Tong, Chi
Zhang, Mofan Zhang, Wang Zhang, Hang Zhu, Jinhua Zhu, Jiaze Chen, Jiangjie Chen, Chengyi
Wang, Hongli Yu, Weinan Dai, Yuxuan Song, Xiangpeng Wei, Hao Zhou, Jingjing Liu, Wei-Ying
Ma, Ya-Qin Zhang, Lin Yan, Mu Qiao, Yonghui Wu, and Mingxuan Wang. Dapo: An open-source
llm reinforcement learning system at scale, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.
14476.
Yang Yue, Zhiqi Chen, Rui Lu, Andrew Zhao, Zhaokai Wang, Yang Yue, Shiji Song, and Gao Huang.
Does reinforcement learning really incentivize reasoning capacity in llms beyond the base model?,
2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.13837.
Lunjun Zhang, Arian Hosseini, Hritik Bansal, Mehran Kazemi, Aviral Kumar, and Rishabh Agarwal.
Generative verifiers: Reward modeling as next-token prediction, 2025. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2408.15240.
13


A
THE USE OF LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS
In preparing this manuscript, we used a large language model (LLM) solely for polishing the writing
style and improving the clarity of the manuscript. The LLM was not used for generating research
ideas, designing experiments, conducting analyses, or deriving results. All scientific contributions,
including the conceptualization, methodology, experiments, and conclusions, were developed entirely
by the authors.
B
IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
B.1
HYPERPARAMETERS
Table 2 and Table 3 show the detailed hyperparameters we use during training and evaluation.
Table 2: RL Training Hyperparameters for ReVeal-Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct and ReVeal-DAPO-Qwen-
32B
Parameter
Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct
DAPO-Qwen-32B
Max Turn
3
3
Training Batch Size
128
1024
Mini-Batch Size
16
256
Learning Rate (Actor)
5 × 10−7
1 × 10−6
Learning Rate (Critic)
1 × 10−5
1 × 10−5
KL Coefficient
0.0
0.0
Maximum Prompt Length
4,096
4,096
Maximum Response Length
8,192
12,288
Maximum Tool Response Length
4,096
4,096
Temperature
1.0
1.0
Training Epochs
4
10
Table 3: RL Evaluation Hyperparameters for Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct and DAPO-Qwen-32B
Parameter
Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct
DAPO-Qwen-32B
Maximum Prompt Length
4,096
4,096
Maximum Response Length
20,480
32,768
Maximum Tool Response Length
4,096
4,096
Do Sample
True
True
Temperature for Pass@1
0.6
0.6
Top_p for Pass@1
0.9
0.9
Rollout for Pass@1
10
10
Temperature for Pass@k
0.6
0.6
Top_p for Pass@k
0.9
0.9
Rollout for Pass@k
128
128
B.2
CASE STUDY OF REVEAL
Table 4 shows a detailed case of ReVeal.
B.3
PROMPT TEMPLATES
Table 5 shows the comparison between the commonly used Think-Answer prompt and our Generation-
Verification Prompt. Our prompt guides the model to continuously alternate between generation
and verification until the correct answer is obtained. Additionally, to enable the extraction of code
generated by the model for providing accurate training rewards, we instruct the model to enclose the
code within python blocks.
14


Table 4: Case Study of ReVeal Performing Iterative Generation and Verification
Question:
The Two-dimensional kingdom has a regular army of n people... The Two-dimensional kingdom has m vests at
its disposal, the j-th vest’s size equals bj. Help mobilize the Two-dimensional kingdom’s army: equip with vests
as many soldiers as possible.
Response:
<generation-think>
The problem can be solved using a dual circulation.
Here’s a step-by-step approach to the solution:
...
Wait, I can use a greedy approach to solve this problem. Let me try the greedy algorithm by following steps:
...
</generation-think>
<generation-answer>
```python
def equip_soldiers(n, m, x, y, a, b):
...
```
</generation-answer>
<verification-think>
Now, we will verify the code with the provided test cases.
- Example Input 1 should result in matching 2 pairs: (Soldier at index 1 with Vest at index 1) and (Soldier at
index 3 with Vest at index 2). There is no possible matching for the remaining soldiers with the available vests
within the given range.
Wait, I could add an extra test case for verification: more vests than soldiers...
</verification-think>
<verification-answer>
- Input:
```1 3 5 ```
- Expected Output:
```3 2 ```
...
</verification-answer>
<tool-feedback>
...
- Actual Output:
```3 1 ```
- Judgement:
Failed
...
</tool-feedback>
<generation-think>
The initial code provided did not successfully handle the actual output as expected. There is a discrepancy where
the vest index tracked in the loop is not correctly being reset or updated...
Alternatively, I should create a list that keeps track of which vests have already been used and adjust the code
logic to ensure each vest is used only once. Here is a revised version of the code:
...
</verification-answer>
<tool-feedback>
...
- Actual Output:
```3 2 ```
- Judgement:
Passed
...
</tool-feedback>
15


Table 5: Comparison Between Think-Answer Prompt and ReVeal Prompt
Think-Answer Prompt
ReVeal Prompt
system
You are Qwen, created by Alibaba Cloud. You are
a helpful assistant.
user
{question}
First think about the reasoning process in the mind
and then provides the user with the answer. The
reasoning process and answer are enclosed within
<think> </think> and <answer> </answer> tags,
respectively, i.e., <think> reasoning process here
</think> <answer> answer here </answer>.
Enclose your code within delimiters as follows.
```python
YOUR CODE HERE
```
assistant
system
You are Qwen, created by Alibaba Cloud. You are a helpful assistant.
user
{question}
First think through the reasoning process and write Python
code to solve the problem, enclose your reasoning process in <generation-think>
</generation-think> and present the code in
```python
Your code
```
within <generation-answer> </generation-answer> tags. After that, verify your
code by generating test cases:
1. Extract sample test cases if the problem description includes them. When neces-
sary, generate a small number of additional test cases to validate the correctness of
the generated code.
2. Enclose your reasoning process in <verification-think> </verification-think> tags
and enclose the final test cases and your verification conclusion within <verification-
answer> </verification-answer> tags and wrap each test case using the following
format:
- Input:
```
testcase input
```
- Expected Output:
```
expected testcase output
```
3. Note that for "Use Call-Based format" questions, the testcase input should use a
function call format, e.g., fn_name(12, 12, 12).
assistant
B.4
TEMPLATES USED FOR TOOL FEEDBACK
Table 6 shows the mapping between execution results and hint templates: (1) for test cases that are
verified as successful, we give a [Passed] signal in the judgement area; (2) for test cases that are
verified as failed, we give a [Failed] signal in the judgement area; (3) for test cases that are verified as
wrong, we give a clear feedback of [Wrong test case] for individual failures, or [No correct test cases
generated] if all test cases are invalid; (4) for format error, we will give the feedback of formatting
instructions to guide correct generation.
C
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF SHORT-TERM MEMORY
To prevent the interaction context from growing unbounded and to keep inference efficient, we
use a short-term memory mechanism. The system keeps a rolling window of the last three genera-
tion–verification turns and discards older interactions. For those retained turns, it preserves the full
content of code, test cases, and tool feedback. This design allows the model to reuse information
from recent history and build on previous attempts, which helps reduce redundant exploration and
speed up convergence.
We compare models with and without memory integration. The baseline model without memory
provides complete historical information from all previous turns directly to the model, maintaining
full contextual details throughout the interaction sequence. We evaluated ReVeal’s impact on
LiveCodeBench Pass@1 performance with and without memory. Test results indicate that introducing
short-term memory does not cause a decline in Pass@1 (w/o memory 38.2% vs. w/ memory 38.3%
at turn 15), and may even yield a slight performance boost. This sustained improvement capability
highlights the memory mechanism’s effectiveness in enabling continuous learning and adaptation
within computational constraints.
16


Table 6: Tool Feedback Templates for Different Execution Result Types.
Execution Results
Feedback
Success Test cases
- Input:
{input}
- Expected Output:
{expected output}
- Actual Output:
{actual output}
- Judgement
Passed
Failed Test cases
- Input:
{input}
- Expected Output:
{expected output}
- Actual Output:
{actual output}
- Judgement
Failed
- Failed Reason
{failed reason}
Wrong Test Cases
- Input:
{input}
- Expected Output:
{expected output}
- Actual Output:
{actual output}
- Judgement
Wrong test case.
No correct test cases are generated.
Error Format
No valid code because of the incorrect format. Write Python code again, and
present the code in
```python
Your code
```
within <generation-answer> </generation-answer> tags. After that, verify your
code by generating test cases:
1. Extract sample test cases if the problem description includes them...
2. Wrap each test case using the following format:
- Input:
```
testcase input
```
- Expected Output:
```
expected testcase output
```
17


D
MORE EXPERIMENTS ON QWEN2.5-32B-INSTRUCT
Main Results.
To further validate the effectiveness and scalability of ReVeal across different base
models, we additionally conduct experiments on Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct. As shown in Table 7, ReVeal
achieves a 4.1% improvement in Pass@1 over the single-turn RL baseline. Moreover, using TAPO
with joint verifiable rewards yields higher Pass@1 compared to ReVeal with outcome-only reward,
while maintaining a higher ∆↑and near-zero ∆↓. These results demonstrate that ReVeal remains
effective and stable across backbones of varying capability.
Training Curves.
Figure 5 shows concurrent improvements in both code accuracy and test-case
accuracy when using TAPO with joint rewards, indicating that explicitly optimizing self-verification
leads to more reliable verification and drives stronger multi-turn refinement, echoing our main
findings on DAPO-Qwen-32B.
Significance.
To demonstrate that the performance improvements are statistically significant, we
repeated the experiment 8 times and reported the mean ± std in Table 8, confirming the significance
of the gains.
Table 7: Performance comparison of ReVeal (Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct) with baseline methods on
LiveCodeBench. Pass@1 indicates the success rate; ∆↑and ∆↓represent the percentages of incorrect
solutions corrected and correct solutions degraded after revision, respectively.
Model
LiveCodeBench V5
Pass@1
∆↑
∆↓
Existing Baselines
Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct
26.6
-
-
DAPO-Qwen-32B
29.6
-
-
Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct
30.5
-
-
w/ critic×5 Qwen2.5-Coder
29.6
2.14
3.04
w/ critic×5 GPT-4o
32.9
4.82
2.50
w/ critic×5 CTRL
33.4
3.75
0.89
RL based on Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct
Single-turn RL
33.9
-
-
ReVeal×6
38.0
3.41
0.0
Ablation Study: TAPO with Joint Verifiable Rewards
ReVeal×6 w/ outcome reward
37.1
2.98
0.0
ReVeal×6 w/ TAPO with joint rewards
38.0
3.41
0.0
Table 8: Significance test of ReVeal (Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct) on LiveCodeBench V5. mean ± std
indicates the average code Pass@1 from 8 repeated experiments.
Model
LiveCodeBench V5
mean ± std
ReVeal×6 turn w/ outcome reward
37.09 ± 0.31
ReVeal×6 turn w/ TAPO with joint rewards
38.02 ± 0.33
E
EXPERIMENTS ON QWEN3-4B-INSTRUCT
To cover models of different scales, we additionally evaluated ReVeal on smaller model Qwen3-4B-
instruct (Yang et al., 2025). The results on Table 9 show that ReVeal brings substantial performance
gains, far exceeding other baseline methods and enables deeper test-time scaling. This provides
further evidence that ReVeal is not tied to a single scale (32B) and can generalize across different
models.
18


(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Figure 5: Comparison of code accuracy, test case accuracy, and response length across training for
ReVeal (Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct) with turn-level rewards, ReVeal with outcome-only rewards, and
single-turn RL without tool integration.
Table 9: Performance comparison of ReVeal trained based on Qwen3-4B-Instruct with different
training turns. Pass@1 indicates the success rate.
Model
LiveCodeBench V6
CodeContests
Pass@1
Pass@1
Qwen3-4B-Instruct
33.1
24.3
Single-turn RL
39.0
26.9
ReVeal (Max train turn=1)
×1 turn
37.3
26.6
×5 turn
41.5
30.6
×8 turn
41.7
30.7
ReVeal (Max train turn=3)
×1 turn
40.6
28.5
×5 turn
44.1
33.6
×8 turn
44.5
33.9
ReVeal (Max train turn=5)
×1 turn
38.6
28.4
×5 turn
43.1
33.2
×8 turn
44.0
33.5
F
ABLATIONS: SEPARATING FRAMEWORK-LEVEL AND RL TRAINING GAINS
To disentangle the effect of the ReVeal multi-turn framework from the effect of ReVeal RL training,
we evaluate several variants that progressively add components of ReVeal.
We first apply the ReVeal multi-turn framework to Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct without any RL training,
using exactly the same ReVeal prompt format and code-execution tool. As shown in Table 10,
this variant produces only modest gains and fails to sustain effective deep multi-turn refinement:
performance improves slightly from 1 to 3 turns and then saturates or even drops. This indicates that
simply changing the prompting scheme and enabling multi-turn tool feedback is not sufficient.
We then apply the same ReVeal multi-turn framework with code execution to stronger baselines such
as DAPO-Qwen-32B and Single-turn RL at test time, again without additional RL under the ReVeal
objective, these multi-turn variants either exhibit gains in the first few turns and then begin to degrade,
19


(b)
(a)
Figure 6: Effect of generation-reward coefficients (abs, imp) on ReVeal (Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct).
We plot (a) training code accuracy and (b) LiveCodeBench v5 accuracy across training for three
settings of: (1, 0), (1, 1), and (0, 1).
or show almost no improvement at all (Table 11). While this confirms that most of ReVeal’s gains
cannot be explained by multi-turn framework alone.
Finally, Table 11 reports two stronger ablations, ReVeal (no-gen RL) and ReVeal (no-ver RL), where
we still use the ReVeal multi-turn framework but RL-train only one role: we pair a ReVeal-trained
verifier with an untrained base generator (no-gen RL), or a ReVeal-trained generator with an untrained
base verifier (no-ver RL). ReVeal (no-ver RL) yields gains in the first few turns but quickly saturates,
whereas the full ReVeal model continues to improve with more turns and achieves higher ∆↑and
lower ∆↓. This indicates that ReVeal’s explicit optimization of verification yields clear performance
gains and enables deeper test-time scaling. ReVeal (no-gen RL) continues to improve with more turns
even when paired with a relatively weak generator, suggesting that ReVeal’s explicit optimization of
verification is key to enabling deeper test-time scaling. Taken together, these ablations indicate that
while the multi-turn framework and tool feedback are helpful, the main gains come from explicitly
training by ReVeal RL objective.
Table 10: Performance of Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct under the ReVeal multi-turn framework, with and
without RL training. Pass@1 indicates the success rate; ∆↑and ∆↓represent the percentages of
incorrect solutions corrected and correct solutions degraded after revision, respectively.
Model
LiveCodeBench V5
Pass@1
∆↑
∆↓
ReVeal Multi-turn Framework w/o Training
×1 turn
26.3
-
-
×3 turn
27.5
-
-
×6 turn
27.4
2.40
1.31
ReVeal Multi-turn Framework w/ Training
×1 turn
35.7
-
-
×3 turn
37.5
-
-
×6 turn
38.0
3.41
0.0
G
TAPO REWARD ABLATIONS
TAPO Reward Ablations
Besides the reward-signal ablation comparing ReVeal (outcome-only)
variant with the full joint-reward in Table 1, we additionally include two ReVeal variants on top of
the outcome-only baseline: ReVeal (outcome+gen) and ReVeal (outcome+ver). As shown in Table
12, both variants outperform the outcome-only version, and the full ReVeal achieves the overall best
results. This indicates that both rgen and rver make useful contributions beyond the outcome reward:
rgen supervises both generation and verification by encouraging exposing more informative failure
modes and larger subsequent code improvements, while rver supervises test case accuracy directly.
Generation-Reward Ablation
Our generation reward decomposes into an absolute term (abs,
the code accuracy at the current turn) and an improvement term (imp, how much the current turn’s
20


Table 11: Performance on LiveCodeBench V6 for configurations designed to disentangle the gains
from the ReVeal multi-turn framework and from ReVeal RL training. We compare: (i) applying the
multi-turn framework to existing baselines without ReVeal RL, (ii) ReVeal variants where only the
generator or only the verifier is RL-trained (no-gen RL / no-ver RL), and (iii) full ReVeal with RL on
both roles.
Configuration
LiveCodeBench V6
Pass@1
∆↑
∆↓
Existing Baselines + ReVeal Multi-turn Framework
Base Model + ReVeal multi-turn framework
×1 turn
28.4
-
-
×5 turn
32.8
4.53
0.75
×8 turn
31.8
4.15
1.70
Single-turn RL model + ReVeal multi-turn framework
×1 turn
33.4
-
-
×5 turn
32.8
1.53
1.36
×8 turn
33.0
2.05
1.53
ReVeal with RL on one role
ReVeal (no-gen RL): Base model as Generator + ReVeal as Verifier
×1 turn
29.0
-
-
×5 turn
33.6
6.16
0.91
×8 turn
33.8
6.39
0.91
ReVeal (no-ver RL): ReVeal as Generator + Base model as Verifier
×1 turn
34.6
-
-
×5 turn
36.9
2.94
0.53
×8 turn
36.8
4.25
1.26
ReVeal with full RL training
ReVeal
×1 turn
34.8
-
-
×5 turn
37.2
3.71
0.0
×8 turn
37.7
5.62
0.0
code accuracy improves over the previous turn). In our default setting, we use abs = 0 and imp =
1; that is, we only use the change in code pass rate to reward the quality of the generated tests and
the current-turn correction. In early experiments on Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct, we compared several
weightings (abs/imp = 0/1, 1/1, 1/0) and observed 0/1 > 1/1 > 1/0 as shown in Figure 6, suggesting
that emphasizing improvement over absolute accuracy leads to better multi-turn performance.
H
TRAINING-TURN COUNT ABLATION
We vary the training horizon to 1, 3, and 5 turns while keeping other settings fixed. As shown in
Table 9, all ReVeal variants outperform the single-turn RL baseline; training with 3 turns yields much
larger gain than 1-turn training, while increasing the horizon further to 5 turns brings no additional
improvement, suggesting that the benefit saturates around 3-5 turns on our current (mostly solvable)
training set. On this training set, mean rewards can reach 4.5, which means most problems are already
solved within 3 generation-verification turns, so the additional 2 training turns provide limited extra
signal on a small fraction of very difficult questions. We expect longer training horizons to be more
beneficial on more challenging training data.
Importantly, for all training horizons (1, 3, and 5), the corresponding models continue to improve
when we allow more inference turns than they were trained on, indicating that extrapolation beyond
the training horizon is effective even when the model is trained with only a single turn.
21


Table 12: Performance comparison of ReVeal trained based on DAPO-Qwen-32B with different
verifiable rewards. Pass@1 indicates the success rate.
Model
LiveCodeBench V6
CodeContests
Pass@1
Pass@1
ReVeal (outcome only)
×1 turn
32.7
20.0
×5 turn
35.9
26.1
×8 turn
36.1
27.4
ReVeal (outcome+ver)
×1 turn
32.3
17.3
×5 turn
36.6
26.5
×8 turn
36.8
27.8
ReVeal (outcome+gen)
×1 turn
30.7
17.2
×5 turn
37.1
26.6
×8 turn
38.0
28.2
ReVeal Full (outcome+gen+ver)
×1 turn
34.8
22.3
×5 turn
37.2
28.1
×8 turn
37.7
30.4
Table 13: Performance comparison of ReVeal (DAPO-Qwen-32B) with baseline methods on Hu-
manEval+ and MBPP+. Pass@1 indicates the success rate.
Model
HumanEval+
MBPP+
Pass@1
Pass@1
Existing Baselines
Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct
85.4
75.4
DAPO-Qwen-32B
86.0
73.8
RL based on DAPO-Qwen-32B
Single-turn RL
86.0
76.2
ReVeal×8
×1 turn
85.2
77.9
×3 turn
88.6
78.9
×4 turn
88.4
78.9
I
EVALUATION ON ADDITIONAL BENCHMARKS
We evaluate ReVeal on two additional code-generation benchmarks: HumanEval+ (Liu et al., 2023)
and MBPP+ (Liu et al., 2023). The evaluation process follows the hyperparameter configuration
specified in Table 3. We use Pass@1 to measure the success rate of the model’s final code solutions.
Although these benchmarks differ from our training data, ReVeal still yields larger gains over the
baselines as shown in Table 13.
J
GRADIENT-BASED INCENTIVE ANALYSIS FOR TAPO
ReVeal’s multi-turn framework explicitly elicits verification turns in the trajectory, allowing veri-
fication tokens to be meaningfully optimized. Within this multi-turn framework, we analyze how
TAPO modifies the underlying PPO objective and gradients relative to an outcome-only baseline.
The analysis below shows that TAPO’s credit assignment strengthens the optimization signal for veri-
fication, which helps explain why ReVeal widens the verification–generation (V-G) asymmetry. We
then contrast TAPO with a naive token-level implementation that lacks turn-aware credit assignment,
22


illustrating how such a scheme can suffer from misattributed credit and reward gaming, and how
TAPO’s design avoids these issues and promotes co-evolution of code and test quality.
Outcome-only PPO baseline.
Consider an outcome-only PPO baseline that uses only the scalar
outcome reward routcome from Eq. 1, with the same KL and entropy regularizers as ReVeal. Ignoring
these shared regularizers, its objective is
Jout(θ) = Eτ∼πθ

routcome(τ)

.
(9)
With the Monte Carlo return in Eq. 5 and our choice γ = 1, λ = 1, the token-level return for all
tokens before the end-of-sequence is
Rout
t
= routcome(τ).
(10)
Let V out
t
be the critic’s estimate trained to regress Rout
t , and define the corresponding advantages
Aout
t
= Rout
t
−V out
t
.
(11)
Denote by Tgen and Tver the token indices belonging to generation and verification turns respectively.
Up to the usual PPO clipping and scaling factors, the actor gradients for the two roles can be written
as
gbase
gen (θ) ∝E
h X
t∈Tgen
Aout
t ∇θ log πθ(at | st)
i
,
(12)
gbase
ver (θ) ∝E
h X
t∈Tver
Aout
t ∇θ log πθ(at | st)
i
.
(13)
Thus, in the outcome-only baseline both generation and verification tokens are trained only through
the same outcome-based advantage.
TAPO-augmented objective and gradients.
TAPO augments the outcome objective with the
generation and verification rewards:
JTAPO(θ) = Eτ∼πθ
h
routcome(τ) +
X
k
rk
gen(τ) +
X
k
rk
ver(τ)
i
,
(14)
where rk
gen is the pass-rate based reward at generation turn k and rk
ver is the test-quality reward at
verification turn k. TAPO routes these rewards to tokens through the turn-level return in Eq. 6 and
the combined return in Eq. 8. Following Eq. 8, we write the TAPO return and advantages as
˜Rt = Rt + Rturn
t
,
ATAPO
t
= ˜Rt −V TAPO
t
,
(15)
where V TAPO
t
is the critic trained to regress ˜Rt. Using Eq. 6 together with the fact that Rt = routcome
for all tokens before EOS, we obtain explicit forms for the TAPO return. For a token t belonging to
generation turn k,
Rturn
t
= rk
gen,
˜Rt = routcome + rk
gen.
(16)
For a token t belonging to verification turn k, whose successor turn k + 1 is generation, Eq. 6 gives
Rturn
t
= rk
ver + rk+1
gen ,
˜Rt = routcome + rk
ver + rk+1
gen .
(17)
The corresponding actor gradients under TAPO are
gTAPO
gen
(θ) ∝E
h X
t∈Tgen
ATAPO
t
∇θ log πθ(at | st)
i
,
(18)
gTAPO
ver
(θ) ∝E
h X
t∈Tver
ATAPO
t
∇θ log πθ(at | st)
i
.
(19)
23


Incremental gradients and widened V–G asymmetry.
To make the difference to the outcome-only
baseline explicit, we define the incremental gradients
∆ggen(θ) ∝E
h X
t∈Tgen
 ATAPO
t
−Aout
t

∇θ log πθ(at | st)
i
,
(20)
∆gver(θ) ∝E
h X
t∈Tver
 ATAPO
t
−Aout
t

∇θ log πθ(at | st)
i
,
(21)
so that
gTAPO
gen
(θ) = gbase
gen (θ) + ∆ggen(θ),
gTAPO
ver
(θ) = gbase
ver (θ) + ∆gver(θ).
(22)
Using the definitions above we can write
ATAPO
t
−Aout
t
=
  ˜Rt −V TAPO
t

−
 Rout
t
−V out
t

= Rturn
t
−
 V TAPO
t
−V out
t

.
(23)
In the actor update, the critic outputs Vt are treated as baselines and are not differentiated with respect
to θ. Thus the additional actor gradients ∆ggen and ∆gver are driven by the turn-level returns Rturn
t
that TAPO introduces.
For generation tokens, Rturn
t
= rk
gen depends only on the per-turn code pass-rate signal and does
not involve the verification reward. Relative to outcome-only PPO, TAPO therefore provides finer,
outcome-aligned signals for generation by decomposing changes in pass rate into turn-level contri-
butions; this can be viewed as process-level reward shaping rather than introducing a new objec-
tive beyond code quality. For verification tokens, in contrast, Rturn
t
= rk
ver + rk+1
gen
combines two
environment-grounded signals: test quality on the golden code and the effect of these tests on the
next generation turn. The outcome-only baseline optimizes verification tokens only through signals
mediated by final code quality, whereas TAPO adds verification-specific gradient components that
directly reward constructing high-quality, informative tests.
Thus, on the one hand, ReVeal’s multi-turn framework explicitly elicits verification turns in the
trajectory, allowing verification tokens to be meaningfully optimized, which is not guaranteed by
other baseline methods. On the other hand, relative to outcome-only PPO, TAPO strictly enriches
the task-aligned reward signals: it explicitly optimizes the verification objective while leaving the
generation objective essentially unchanged up to finer credit assignment. This structural asymmetry
in the incremental gradients provides a gradient-level explanation for our empirical finding that TAPO
substantially increases verification accuracy and widens the V-G gap compared to other baselines.
Accurate turn-aware credit assignment and robustness to reward gaming.
A naive token-
level implementation for multi-turn generation–verification would simply attach each reward rk
gen
or rk
ver to the last token of the corresponding turn and then use a standard Monte Carlo return for
all earlier tokens in the trajectory, without the turn-aware routing in Eq. 6–8. This would propagate
the verification reward rk
ver back through all preceding generation tokens and introduce gradient
terms of the form rk
ver∇θ log πθ(agen
t
| sgen
t ) for tokens that do not causally influence rk
ver, since rk
ver is
evaluated on the golden code. Code tokens would then be updated by a signal they do not influence
(e.g., wrong code but strong tests still giving high verification reward to the code, or correct code but
weak tests inducing low verification reward), and the policy may learn spurious correlations between
code patterns and high test accuracy rather than improving true code quality.
By contrast, TAPO’s reward design enforces accurate turn-level credit assignment, which is crucial
for stable and effective RL training. Its turn-level routing ensures that generation tokens are rewarded
only via outcome and pass-rate improvements (routcome and rk
gen), and that verification tokens are
rewarded only when their tests are both strong on the golden code rk
ver and helpful for subsequent
code refinement rk+1
gen
and routcome. Together with the shared policy for both roles, this structure
encourages co-evolution of code and tests: better tests expose more informative failure modes and
increase rk
gen and routcome, while better code raises the bar for verification and encourages tests that
achieve higher rk
ver.
The same credit-assignment pattern naturally extends to more general generation–verification designs
with task-specific verification rewards, while remaining robust and compatible across different tasks.
For example, if a verification turn were rewarded for judging correctness, the naive implementation
24


mentioned above could lead to collusion between generation and verification: generation might
collapse to trivially wrong solutions that are extremely easy for verification to flag as incorrect,
allowing verification to obtain high verification reward while the solution quality remains poor.
TAPO’s separation of roles prevents such self-referential reward exploitation and make the ReVeal
training paradigm robust across different verification reward designs.
K
LIMITATIONS
Our current instantiation of ReVeal is primarily optimized for functional correctness: solutions
that produce correct outputs on the available golden tests are treated as correct, and violations of
time/space complexity are only penalized when they cause failures under these tests (e.g., timeouts
within the execution budget). As a result, brute-force or computationally inefficient solutions that
still pass all golden tests may not be distinguished from truly efficient ones. A natural direction for
future work is to add stress tests with very large inputs; these test cases can then be used to compute
the outcome and generation rewards, directly encouraging solutions that remain correct under stricter
time/space constraints. Another complementary direction is to enrich the tool interface with runtime
and resource statistics (e.g., execution time, memory usage) and incorporate these signals into the
outcome, generation, and verification rewards, encouraging both efficient code and stress test cases
that reliably expose inefficient solutions.
25